SWP No. 115: Sarah Rice

(See also: Martha Carrier -- Complaint; John Alden -- Mittimus





(Warrant for the Apprehension of Sarah Rice, and Officer's Return)

[May 28, 1692]

To The Constables in Reding

You are in theire Majesties names hereby required to apprehend and bring before us Sarah Rice the wife of Nicholas Rice of Reding on Tuesday next being the 31't day of this Instant moneth. at the house of L't Nathan'l Ingersalls at Salem Village aboute ten of the Clock in the forenoon, who stand charged with haveing Committed sundry acts of Witchcraft on the Bodys of Mary Walcot and Abigail Williams & others. to theire great hurt: &c in order to her Examination Relateing to the premises aboves'd faile not Dated Salem May 28'th 1692
                                                                 Per us *John Hathorne ] Assis'ts
*Jonathan. Corwin ]

(Reverse) In obedence to this warant I have brought the Body of Sarah Rice the wife of Nicolas Rice of Redding to the howse of Leu't nathanal Ingersons in Salem Viledg the :31: of this Instant May: 1692
                                                        Atest *John Parker Constable
                                                            for Redding

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 108, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Petition of Nicholas Rice for Restitution of Sarah Rice )

[October 19, 1692]

To the honoured Generall Court now Sitting  in Boston 

The humble Petition of Nicholas Rist of Reading  

Sheweth that whereas Sara Rist wife to the petition'r was taken into Custody the first day of June last and ever Since laine in Boston Goal for witchcraft, tho in all this time nothing has been made Appear for w'ch shee deserv'd Imprisonment or death, the petition'r has been a husband to the Said woman above Tweinty years, in all w'ch time he never had reason to accuse her for any Impietie or witchcraft, but the Contrary Shee lived w'th him as a good faithfull dutifull wife and alwise had respect #[to the respect] to the ordinances of God while her Strength Remain'd and the petition'r on that Consideration is obliged in Conscience and Justice #[oblige] to use all lawfull means for the Support and preservation of her life, and it is deplorable that in old Age the poor decriped woman Should ly under Confinment so long in a Stinching Goal when her Circumstances rather requires a Nurse to Attend her 

May it therefore please yo'r hon'rs to take this matter in to yo'r prudent Considerations.and derect Some speedy Methods whereby this ancient decriped person may not for ever ly in such Miserie wherein her life is made more afflictive to her than death, and the petition'r Shall as in dutie bound
                                        Ever pray
Dated the 19'th october 1692  

(Reverse) 1692 The humble petition
of Nicholas Rist
of #(Linn) Reading 

( Mass. Archives Col. Vol. 135 No. 63, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )