SWP No. 079: George Jacobs, Jr.

(See also: George Burroughs -- Report of Physical Examination; Rebecca Jacobs -- Warrant.





(Complaint v. George Jacobs, Jr., Daniel Andrew , Rebecca Jacobs, Sarah Buckley , Mary Witheridge , Elizabeth Hart , Thomas Farrer , Elizabeth Colson , and Bethia Carter, Jr. )

[May 14, 1692]

Salem.  May 14, 1692. 

Lt Nathaniell Ingersall and Serjt Thomas putnam , yeomen both of Salem Village personally appeared before us and made Complaint in behalfe of theire Majests against Daniell Andrew of Salem Village Bricklayer. George Jacobs jun'r of Salem Village husbandman, and [Rebecca] Jacobs  the wife of Said George Jacobs , Sarah Buckley the wife of W'm Buckley of Salem Village Cordwayner. and Mary Withridge of Salem Village daugter of Said Buckley [Elizabeth] Hart](/tag/hart_elizabeth.html) the wife of Isaac Hart of Lyn husbandman Thomas farrer sen'r of Lyn.hubandman. Elizabeth Colson of Reding single Woman, And Bethya Carter of Ouburne daugter of Widdow Carter of s'd Towne. for high Suspition of Sundry acts of Witchcraft by them Committed or donne lately on the body of Ann puttnam Marcy Lewis Mary Walcot And Abigail Williams & others of Salem Village, whereby much hurt is donne to their bodyes, therefore Craves Justice.

*Nathaniel Ingersoll.
*Thomas putnam

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 221, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. )



(Warrant No. 2 for the apprehension of Daniel Andrew and George Jacobs, Jr., & Warrant No. 3 for the Apprehension of  Elizabeth Colson )

[May 17, 1692]

To the Marshall Generall or Lawfull dept of Constables in Boston or eles where. 

You are in theire Majests names hereby required to apprehend forthwith; or as soon as may be, Daniell Andrew And George Jacobs both of Salem Village, who Stand charged with high Suspition of Sundry acts of Witchcraft by them donne or Committed on the bodys of Mary Walot Abigail Williams Mary Lewis and Others of Salem Village Lately: where by great hurt & dammage hath been donn them. Contrary to the Laws of theire Majests who being found you are to convey unto Salem & Deliver them unto Authority in order to theire Examination Relating to the Premises and hereof are not to faile
Dated Salem  May. 17th 1692
*John Hathorne ]
*Jonathan. Corwin
By order of the Governour 

You are likewise required to apprehend [Elizabeth] Coleson of Reding single woman who we are Informed is gone from Reding to Boston or Charlstowne, And who Also stands Charged wth sundry acts of witchcraft by her Committed on the Bodys of Susannah Sheldon and Others of Salem Village. and send her also to Salem in order to her Examination there Relateing to ye premises aforesd
                        B Salem. 17th 3mo. 1692
*John Hathorne
*Jonathan Corwin
                        order of ye Gouerno & Councill

Complaint beinge made to me underwritten by william Arnold of Readinge that
the aboue intended and mentioned Elizabeth Coleston is fled from the hands of Justice
for which the warrt aboue is directed to aprehhend her, and that [she] is now conceated in
Bostone, These are in theire Majesties name to require you to aprehend the said Elizabeth
Colstone & carry Before Lawfull Authority to be secured till she can be carried to Salem in
order to her tryall there dated in Bostone the 10th of sept 1692
To the sherif of the Countie of Suffolke or his deputie
*John Joyliffe Assist

( MS Ch A, vol. 2, p. 67, Rare Books & Manuscripts, Boston Public Library, Boston, MA. )  