SWP No. 095: Sarah Osborne Died in Prison, May 10, 1692

(See also: Tituba -- Warrant; Sarah Good -- Examination; Sarah Good -- Examination;





(Examination and Mittimus of Sarah Osborne, as Reorded by John Hathorne )

[March 1, 1692 ]

Salem Village
  March the 1'st 1691/2 

Sarah Osburne the wife of Alexander Osburne of Salem Village. brought before us by Joseph Herrick Constable in Salem, to Answer Joseph Hutcheson & Thomas putnam &c yeomen in s'd Salem Village Complainants on behalfe of theire Majest's against s'd Sarah Osburne , for Suspition of Witchcraft by her Committed, and thereby much Injury done to the Bodys of Elizabeth parris Abigail Williams Anna putnam and Elizabeth Hubert all of Salem Village aforesaid, according to theire Complaint, according to a Warrant, Dated Salem febu'y 29'th 1691/2

Sarah #[Good] Osburne upon Examination denyed the matter of fact (viz) that she ever understood or used any Witchcraft or used any Witchcraft, or hurt any of the aboves'd children.

The children abovenamed being all personally present accused her face to face which being don, they ware all hurt, afflicted and tortured very much: which being over and thay out of theire fitts thay sayd that said Sarah Osburne did then Come to them and hurt them, Sarah Osburn being then keept at a distance personally from them. S. Osburne was asked why she then hurt them, she denyed it: it being Asked of her how she could soe pinch & hurt them and yet she be at that distance personally from them she Answered she did not then hurt them.nor never did. she was Asked who then did it, or who she Imployed to doe it, she Answered she did not know that the divell goes aboute in her likeness to doe any hurt. Sarah Osburn being told that Sarah Good one of her Companions had upon  Examination accused her. she nottwithstanding denyed the same, according to her Examination, w'ch is more at Large given in as therein will appeare  

Salem Village
March 1st 1691
Titiba an Indian Woman brought before vs by Const Jos Herick of Salem vpon Suspition of
Witchcraft by her Commited according to the Complt of Jos. Hutcheson & Thomas putnam
etc of Salem Village as appeares Warrant granted Salem 29 febr 1691/2
Titiba vpon Examination, and after some denyall acknowledged the matter of fact. according March 1, 1692 to her Examination giuen in more fully will appeare. and who also charged Sarah Good and
Sarah Osburne with the same,  

(Reverse) Salem Village  

[March 1, 1692]  

March the 1th 1691/2  

Sarah Good Sarah Osburne and Titiba an Indian Woman all of Salem Villag Being this day brought before vs vpon Suspition of Witchcraft &c by them and Euery one of them
Committed. titiba an Indian Woman acknowledging the matter of fact. and Sarah Osburne
and Sarah Good denying the same before vs but: there appeareing. in
all theire Examinations sufficient Ground to. secure them all. And in order to ffurther
Examination thay Ware all mittimus sent to ye Goales in the County of Essex.  

Salem March 2d Sarah Osburne againe Examined and also titiba as will appear in their
Examinations giuen in titiba againe acknowledged the fact & also accused ye other two.  

Salem March 3d Sarah Osburn and titiba Indian againe Examined.
the Examination now Giuen in
titiba againe sd the same  

Salem March 5th Sarah Good and titiba againe Examined. & in theire Examination titiba acknowledg ye same she did formerly and accused thh osburnee other two abouesd  titiba againe said the same  

vs John Hathorne
Assists
Jonathan. Corwin  

Salem
March the 7th 1691/2
Sarah Good Sarah Osburne and Titiba an Indian Woman all sent to the Goale in Boston
according to. theire Mittimuses then sent: to Theire Majests Goale Keeper  

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 14, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Examinations of Sarah Osborne and Tituba, as Recorded by Ezekiel Cheever )

[March 1, 1692]

Sarah Osburn her examination  

(H) what evil spirit have you familiarity with  (O) none.  (H) have you made no contract with the devill (O) no I never saw the devill in my life (H) why doe you hurt these children (O) I doe not hurt them (H) who do you imploy then to hurt them (O) I imploy no body (H) what familiarity have you with Sarah Good (O) none I have not seen her these 2 years. (H) where did you see her then (O) one day agoing to Town (H) what communications had you with her, (O) I had none, only how doe you doe or so, I did not know her by name (H) what did you call her then Osburn made a stand at that at last said, shee called her Sarah (H) Sarah good saith that it was you that hurt the children (O) I doe not know that the devil goes about in my likeness to doe any hurt Mr Harthorn desired all the children to stand up and look upon her and see if they did know her which they all did and every one of  them said that this was one of the woman that did afflict them and that they had constantly seen her in the very habit that shee was now in, thiere evidence do stand that shee said this morning that shee was more like to be bewitched than that she was a witch Mr Harthorn asked her what made her say so shee answered that shee was frighted one time in her sleep and either saw or dreamed that shee saw a thing like an indian all black which did pinch her in her neck and pulled her by the back part of her head to the dore of the house (H) did you never see anything else (O) no. it was said by some in the meeting house that shee had said that shee would never be teid to that spirit any more. (H) what lying spirit is this hath the devil ever deceived you and been false to you. O) I doe not know the devil I never did see him (H) what lying spirit was it then. (O) it was a voice that I thought I heard (H) what did it porpound to you. (O) that I should goe no more to meeting but I said I would and did goe the next Sabbath day (H) were you never tempted furder (O) no (H) why did you yeild thus far to the devil as never to goe to meeting since. (O) alas. I have been sike and not able to goe her housband and others said that shee had not been at Meeting this yeare and two months.  

The examination of Titibe 

(H) Titibe what sp evil spirit have you familiarity with (T) none (H) why doe you hurt these children, (T) I doe not hurt them (H) who is it then the de (T) the devil for ought I kenknow (H) did you never see the devil, (T) the devil came to me and bid me serve him (H) who have you seen) (T) 4 women and sometimes hurt the children, (H) who were they? (T)
goode Osburn and Sarah good and I doe not know who the other were Sarah good and
osburn would have me hurt the children but I would not shee furder saith there was a tale
man of Boston that shee did see (H) when did you see them) (T) Last
night at Boston (H) what did they say to you they said hurt the children, (H) and did you
hurt them no (T) no there is 4 women and one man they hurt the s children and then lay all
upon hure and they tell me if I will not hurt the children they will hurt me (H) but did you
not hurt them (T) yes but I will hurt them no more (H) are you not sorry that you did hurt
them. (T) yes. (H) and why then doe you hurt them) (T) they say hurt children or we will
doe worse to you H) what have you seen an man come to me and say serve me (H) what
service (T) hurt the children and last night there was an appearnce that said K Kill the
children and if I I would no go on hurtang the children they woud doe worse to me (H)
what is this appearance you see (T) sometimes it is like a hog and some times like a great dog
this appearnce shee saith shee did see 4 times (H) what did it say to you (T) it s the black
dog said serve me but I said I am afraid he said if I did not he would doe worse to me (H)
what did you say to it (T) I will serve you no longer then he said he would hurt me and then
he lookes like a man and threatens to hurt me. shee said that this man had a yellow bird that
keept with him and he told me he had more pretty things that he would give me if I would
sere him. (H) what were these pretty things (T) he did not show me them. (H) what else
have you seen (T) two cats a red cat and a black cat (H) what did they say to you (T) they
said serve me (H) when did you see them last (T) Last night and they said serve me but I
shee said I would not (H) what service (T) shee said hurt the children (H) did you not pinch
elisabeth Hubbard this morning (T) the man brought her to me and made hur pinch her (H)
why did you goe to Thomas putnums Last night and hurt his child (T) they pull and hall me
and make goe (H) and what would have you doe Kill her with a knif Left fuller and others said at this {time} when the child saw these persons and was tormented by
them that she did complain of a knif that they wold have her cut her head off with a knife
(H) how did you goe (T) we ride upon stickes and are there presently (H) doe you goe
through the trees or over them (T) we see no thing but are there presently
(H) why did you not tell your master (T) I was afraid they said they would cut off my head if
I told (H) would you not have hurt others if you cold (T) they said they would hurt others
but they could not sh (H) what attendants hath Sarah good (T) a yellow bird and shee would have given me one (H) what meate did she give it (T) it did suck her betwen
her fingers (H) Did not you hurt mr Currins child (T) goode good and goode osburn told
that they did hurt mr Currens child and would have had me hurt him two but I did not (H)
what hath Sarah Osburn (T) yesterday shee had a thing with a head like a woman with
leggs and wings Abigill williams that lives with her uncle mr Parris said that shee did see
this same creature with goode osburn & yesterday being and it turned into the shape of
goode osburn (H) what else have you seen with g osburn (T) an othere thing hairy it goes
upright like a man it hath only 2 leeggs. (H) did you not see Sarah good upon elisebeth
williams {Hubbard} last Saterday (T) I did see her set a wolfe upon her to afflict her the
persons with this maid did say that shee did complain of a wolf T shee furder said that shee
saw a cat with good at another time (H) what cloathes doth the man we go in (T) he goes in
black cloathes a tal man. with white hair I thinke (H) how doth the woman goe) (T) in a
white whood and a black whood with a top knot (H) doe you see who it is that torments
these children now (T) yes it is goode good shee hurts them in her own shape (H) & who is
it that hurts them now (T) I am blind now I cannot see.  

Salem Village
March the 1t 1691/2
Written by. Ezekiell Chevers
Salem Village
March the. 1t 1691/2
  Sarah Goods Examination  

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, nos. 11 & 12,  Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )
 )





(Deposition of Elizabeth Hubbard v. Sarah Osborne )

[+ March 1, 1692 ]

The Deposistion of Elizabeth Hubburd aged about 17 years who testifieth and saith that on the 27'th of february 1691/92 I saw the Apperishtion of sarah osborn who did most greviously tortor me by pricking and pinching me most dreadfully and so she continewed hurting me most greviously tell the first of march 1691/92: being the  day of hir examination #[being first of march] and then also sarah osborn did tortor me most greviously by pinching and pricking me most dreadfully and also severall times since sarah osborn has afflected me and urged me to write in hir book

( Essex County Archives; Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, No. 28, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )
 )





(Desposition of Ann Putnam, Jr. v. Sarah Osborne )

[+ March 1, 1692 ]

The Deposistion of Ann putnam who testifieth and saith that on the 25'th of february 1691/92 I saw the Apperishtion of sarah osborn the wife of Allexandar osborn who did immediatly tortor me most greviously by pinching and pricking me dreadfully and so she continewed most dreadfully to afflect me tell the first day of march being the day of hir examination and then also she did tortor me most dreadfully in the time of hir examination: and also severall times sence sarah osborn has afflected me and urged me to writ in hir book

(Reverse) Ann putnam ag't
Sarah Osborne

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, No. 27, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )
 )





( Testimony of Abigail Williams v. Sarah Osborne , Tituba , & Sarah Good )

[May 23, 1692 ]

The testimony of #Eliz Parris jun'r & & Abigail Williams testifyh & saith that severall times last February she hath [they] been much afflicted with pains in her head & other parts & often pinched by the apparition of Sarah Good, Sarah Osburne& Tituba Indian all of Salem Village & also excessively afflicted by the said apparition of said Good , Osburne , & Tituba at their examination before authority the. 1'st March last past 1691/2

Farther the said Abigail Williams testifyeth
that she saw the apparition of said Sarah Good
at her examination pinch Eliz: Hubbard & set
her into fits & also Eliz: Parris, & Ann Putman

The mark of
  A.W.  

Abigail  Williams.  

Testified before us by                                                               
Abigail Williams
Salem May: the 23rd 1692        
*John Hathorne
*Jonathan Corwin
                                                                    p ord'r of the Govern'r Councill  

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol 1, no. 31, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )
 )





(Statement of Mercy Lewis v. Sarah Osborne )

[++ April 8, 1692 ]

Murcy lewes agged about 19 years who testifieth and
[torn] of April 1692 the Apperishtion of Sarah Osborn
[torn] flected me urging me to writ in hir book

(Reverse) Sarah Osborn

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, No. 30, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )
  )