SWP No. 022: George Burroughs Executed, August 19, 1692

[April 30, 1692]



(Complaint v. George Burroughs , Lydia Dustin , Susannah Martin, Dorcas Hoar , Sarah Morey , and Phillip English )

[April 30, 1692 ]

Salem Aprill the 30'th 1692 

There Being Complaint this day made (Before us) by Capt Jonathan Walcot and Serj't Thomas putnam of Salem Village, in behalfe of theire Majesties, for themselfes, and also for Severall of theire  Neighbours Against George Burroughs Minester in Wells in the province of Maine Lydia Dasting in Reading Widow Susanah Martin of Amesbury Widow Dorcas Hoar of Beverly Widdow, and Sarah Murrell of Beverly And phillip English of Salem Merchant for high Suspition of Sundry acts of Witchcraft done or Committed by them  Upon the Bodys of Mary Walcot . Marcy Lewis Abigail Williams Ann putnam and Eliz Hubert and Susanah Sheldon (Viz) Upon Som: or  all of them, of Salem Village or farm[es] whereby great hurt and  dammage benne donn[e] to the Bodys of s'd persons above named therefore Craved Justice

Signed by Both above'd Complainers   Jonathan Walcott
Thomas Putnam 

The abovs'd Complaint was Exhibited before us this 30'th aprill 1692  

*John Hathorne
*Jonathan Corwin {  Assis'ts  

(Essex Institute Collection, no. 17, . )





(Letter of Elisha Hutchinson Concerning the Apprehension of George Burroughs )

[May 2, 1692 ]

Portsmouth,  May 2. 1692 

Gentlemen
I Recd an order from the Gov'r & Council to aprehend mr  George Buroughs at present preacher at Wells, to be Sent to Salem  their to be Examened, being Suspected to have Confedracy with the  devil in opressing Sundry persons about yo'r Towne of Salem, accordingly I have sent him by John Partredg Marshal of this provence, Except he meet with any other Authority that will commit him to  Some other officer to be Convayed as above, he pleading it will be to his damage to go So far, I am
yo'r humble Servant   

*Elisha Hutchinson 

(Reverse) To Jno Hauthorn
or Jona Curwin Esq s 

( Witchcraft Papers, no. 2, Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA.)





(Warrant for Apprehension of George Burroughs, and Officer's Return)

[April 30, 1692 ]

To Jno Partredg field Marshal

You are Required in their Maj'sts names to aprehend the body of mr George Buroughs at present preacher at Wells in the provence of Maine, & Convay him with all Speed to Salem before the Magestrates there, to be Examened, he being Suspected for a Confederacy with the devil in opressing of Sundry about Salem as they relate. I having Receved perticuler Order from the Govern'r & Council of their Maj'sts Colony of the Masathusets, for the Same, you may not  faile herein, Dated in portsmouth in the provenc of Hamshire. Aprel.30'th 1692
*Elisha Hutchinson Maj'r 

By Virtue of this warrant I Apprehended s'd George Burroughs and have Brought him to Salem and Delievered him to the Authority  there this fourth day of May 1692
*John Partridge feild
                    marshall of the  Provence of newhansher and maine  

(Reverse) Warrant agt Burroughs the Marchalls Returne  

( Witchcraft Papers, no. 1, Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA.. ) 





( Examination of George Burroughs

[May 9, 1692]

The Examination of Geo: Burroughs 9.May.1692 )
                Wm. Stoughton
By Before the Honoured      John Hallum
                Sam: Sewall     Esqrs
                Jonath: Corwin

Being ask'd w[hether] he partook of the Lords supper, he being (as
he said) in full communion at Roxbury.
He answered it was so long since he could not tell: yet
he owned he was at meeting one Sab: at Boston
part of the day, & the other at Charlstown part
of a Sab: when that sacrament happened to be
at both, yet did not partake of either.
He denyed that his house at Casko was haunted.
Yet he owned there were Toads.
He denyed that he made his wife swear, that
she should not write to her Father Ruck without
his approbation of her letter to her Father:
He owned that none of his children, but the Eldest
was Baptised.

The abovesd was in private none of
the Bewitched being present

At his entry into the Room, many (if not
all of the Bewitched) were greivously tortured.

Sus: sheldon testifyed that Burroughs two wives
appeared in their winding sheets, & said that
man killed them [words rubbed out]
He was bid to look upon sus: sheldon.
He looked back & knockt down all (or more)
of the afflicted, wo stood behind him.

Sus:  [one line too faint]
    The sholdiers
2. Mercy Lewis deposition going to be read & he
lookt upon her & she fell into a
dreadfull & tedious fit

3. Mary Walcott  {testimony going to be read
4. Elis: Hubbard {& they all fell into fits
   Susan Sheldon

5. Susan Sheldon   {affirmed each of them that
   Ann Putnam, junior   {he brought the Book & [?]
             {have them write.
Being askd w[hat] he thought of these things.
He answered that it was an amazing & humbling
Providence, but he understood nothing of it
He said (some of you may observe, that) when
They begin [to] name my name they cannot
name it.

Ann Putnam, junior  {testified that his 2 wives
Susan: Sheldon      {& 2 Children did accuse him

The Bewitched were so tortured that Authority
Ordered them to be taken away  Some of them

Sarah Bibber testified that he had hurt her tho
She had not seen him personally before as she
knew

Abig: Hobbs
Deliberance Hobbs   {testimony read
Elizer Keiser

Capt. Willard       {testimoy about his great
Jno. Brown      {strength & the Gun.
Jno. Wheldon

Capt. Putnam testified about the Gun.

(Right column)

Capt Wormwood testifyed about the Gun &
the Mallossoes

He denyed that about the Mallossoes
About the Gun he said he took it before the
lock & rested it upon his breast
John Brown test testifyed about a b[arre]ll [of] Cyder
He denyed that his family was affrighted by a
white calf in his house.

Capt Putman testifyed that he made his wife
enter into a covenant

11.May.1692

Abig: Hobbs in prison affirmed that Geo: Burroughs
in his Shape appeared to her, & urged [her to set]
hand to the Book, which she did; & after-
wards in his own person he acknowledged to
her, that he had made her set her hand to
the Book.

(Reverse) The [examination]
of Geo: Burroughs

( Uncatalogued MS, Miscellaneous Manuscripts (1692), Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA..)





(Indictment No. 1 of George Burroughs , for Afflicting Mary Walcott)

[+ August 3, 1692]

Anno Regis et Reginae Willim et  Mariae nunc Angliae &c Quarto

Essex ss The Jurors for our Sovereigne Lord and Lady the King  and Queen pr'sents That George Burroughs late of falmouth in the  province of the Massach'ts Bay in New England, Clerk -- the Ninth Day of May in the fourth Year of the Reigne of Our Sovereigne Lord  and Lady William and Mary by the Grace of God of England Scott-  land France and Ireland King and Queen Defenders of the faith &c  and Divers other Days and times, as well before, as after, Certaine  Detestable Arts called Witchcrafts, and Sorceries, Wickedly, and  felloniously, hath used Practised.&.Exercised at and within.the  Towneship of Salem in the County of Essex aforesaid in upon and  ag't one Mary Walcott of Salem Villiage in the County of Essex  Singlewoman -- by which said wicked Arts the said Mary Walcott  the Ninth Day of May in the forth Year aboves'd and Divers other  Days and times as well before as after was and is Tortured afflicted  Pined Consumed wasted and Tormented.ag't the Peace of our Sover-    eigne  Lord and Lady the King and Queen and ag't the forme of the  Statute in that case made and Provided:
Witnesses
Mary Walcott
Sarah Vibber Jurat
Mercy Lewis
Ann Putnam
Eliz. Hubbard 

( Witchcraft Papers, no. 4, Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA., Boston, MA..)

 



(Indictment No. 2 of George Burroughs, for Afflicting Mercy Lewis)

[+ August 3, 1692]

Anno Regis et Reginae Willim et  Mariae nunc: Angliae &c Quarto

Essex ss The Jurors for our Sovereigne Lord and Lady the King and  Queen pr'sents That George Burroughs late of falmouth in the province of the Massachusets Bay in New England -- Clarke -- The ninth Day of May in the forth Year of the Reigne of our Sovereigne  Lord and Lady William and Mary by the Grace of God of England  Scottland France and Ireland King and Queen Defenders of the faith   &c and Divers other Dayes and times, as well before as after certaine  Detestable Arts called Witchcrafts and Sorceries. Wickedly and felloniously, hath used -- Practised and Exercised at and within the Towneship of Salem in the County of Essex afores'd in, upon.and ag't one Mercy Lewis of Salem Villiage in the County of Essex in New  England -- by which wicked Arts the said Mercy Lewis -- the Ninth Day of May -- in the fourth Year afores'd and Divers other Dayes  and times as well before as after was and is Tortured afflicted Pine  Consumed Wasted and Tormented: ag't the Peace of our Sovereigne  Lord and Lady the King.and Queen, and ag't the forme of the Statute in that case made and Provided/.
Witnesses.
Mercy Lewis
Mary Walcott.
El. Hubbard
Ann Putnam 

(Reverse) billa vera
George Burroughs  #[case] No (1) George Burroughs

( Witchcraft Papers, no. 5, Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA.)





(Indictment No. 3 of George Burroughs, for Afflicting Elizabeth Hubbard )

[+ August 3, 1692]

Anno Regis et Reginae Willim et  Mariae nunc Angliae &c Quarto

Essex ss The Jurors for our Sovereigne Lord and Lady the King  and Queen pr'sents That George Burroughs late of Falmouth w'thin the province of the Mattathusets Bay in New England Clerke -- The  Ninth Day of May -- in the fourth Year of the Reigne of our Sovereigne Lord and Lady William and Mary by the Grace of God of England Scottland France and Ireland King and Queen Defenders of the faith &c Diver other Days and times as well before as after, certaine  Detestable Arts called wicthcraft & Sorceries -- wickedly and feloniously hath used Practiced & Exercised at and within the Township  of Salem in the County of Essex & aforesaid, in Upon & ag't one Elizabeth Hubbard of Salem in the County of Essex Singlewoman --  by which said wicked Arts the said Elizabeth Hubbard the Ninth Day of May -- in the fourth Year aboves'd and Divers other Days  and Times as well before as after.was.and is Tortured afflicted Pined  Consumed wasted and Tormented.also for Sundrey other Acts of  witchcrafts by Said George Burroughs .Committed and done ag't the Peace of our Sovereigne Lord & Lady the King & Queen their  Crowne and dignity and ag't the forme of the Statute in that case  made & Provided:
Witnesses.
Elizabeth Hubbard
Mary Wolcott
Ann Putman 

(Reverse) billa vera
No. 3 Geo Burroughs

( Witchcraft Papers, no. 3, Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA.)





(Indictment No. 4 of George Burroughs, for Afflicting Ann Putnam )

[+ August 3, 1692]

Anno Regis et Reginae Willm et  Mariae nunc: Anglia &c Quarto

Essex ss: The Jurors for our Sovereigne Lord and Lady the King  & Queen pr'sents That George Burroughs late of falmouth within  the Province of the Mattathusets Bay in New England Clarke the  Ninth Day of May in the fourth Year of the Reigne of our Soverigne Lord & Lady William and Mary by the Grace of God of England  Scottland France and Ireland King and Queen Defend'rs of the faith  &c Diver other Dayes and times as well before as After certaine Detestable Artes called Witchcrafts & Sorceries: Wickedly and feloniously hath used Practised & Exercised at and within the Towne of  Salem in the County afores'd in upon and ag't one: Ann Putman of  Salem Village SingleWoman -- by which said wicked arts the Said  Ann Putman the Ninth Day of May in the fourth year abovesaid and  Divers other Dayes and times as well before as after was and is  Tortured Afflicted Pined Consumed Wasted and Tormented also  for sundry other Acts of Witchcrafts by said George Burroughs Committed and Done ag't the Peace of our Sovereigne Lord and Lady  the King and Queen their Crowne & Dignity and ag't the form of the Statute in tha[t] case: made and Provided:
Witnesses
Ann Putnam
Mary Wolcott
Elizabeth Hubbard
Mary Warren 

(Reverse) Geo. Burroughs 

( Essex Institute Collection, no. 3. Peabody Essex Museum, Duncan Phillips Library, Rowley, MA. )





(Summons for Witnesses v. George Burroughs, and Officer’s Return)

[August 5, 1692]

William & Mary by the Grace of God of England Scotland France  & Ireland King & Queen defend'rs of the faith &ca
mr Jno Ruck mrs Eliz: Ruck mr Thomas Ruck & Samuel Ruck
To Capt William Worwood Greeting.

Wee Comand you all Excuses set apart to be and personaly appear at the present Court of Oyer & Terminer held at Salem there  to Testify the truth to the best of your knowledge on certain Indictm'ts Exhibited against mr George Burrough : hereof fail not dated in
Salem.Aug't 5'th 1692. & in the fourth yeare of Our Reign
*Stephen Sewall Cler
August 5'th The persons above Named where all every of them sumoned to appeare as above
by me 
*Joseph Neale
                        Const'b in [in] Salem. 

(Reverse) G. Burroughs . Sumons Ruck etal

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem - Witchcraft, vol. 2, no. 29. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Masssachusetts State Archives, MA.  )





(Summons for James Greenslit as Witness Against George Burroughs, and Officer's Return )

[July 26, 1692]

Wm & Mary by the Grace of God of England Scotland France  & Ireland King defend'r of the faith &ca

To James Greenslit Greeting. --
Wee comand you all Excuses set apart to be & personaly app'r at the Next Court of Oyer & Terminer held at Salem on the  first Tuesday in August Next There to Testify the Truth on certain Indictments to be Exhibited against George Burroughs & not depart the Court without lycense or leave of s'd Court hereof fail not On penalty of One hundred pounds money to be levied on your Goods  Chattels &ca Dated in Salem  July 26'th 1692. *Step. Sewall , Cle
To the Sheriffe of Essex  

(Reverse) July 26'th 1692 I have Sumoned the within named James Greinslett according to this Within Sub pena to Give in his Evidence  att the time and place within mentioned by me
*Geo. Herrick Dep't Sheriff 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem, Witchcraft, vol. 2, no. 21. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Masssachusetts State Archives, MA. )





(Physical Examination of George Burroughs and George Jacobs, Jr.)

[++ August 4, 1692]

Wee whoes names are under written having r'ceived an order  from the sreife for to search the bodyes of George Burroughs and  George Jacobs . wee find nothing upon the body of the above sayd  burroughs but w't is naturall:but upon the body of George Jacobs  wee find 3. tetts w'ch according to the best of our Judgements wee think is not naturall for wee run a pinn through 2 of them and he was not sinceible of it: one of them being within his mouth upon the Inside of his right shoulder balde an a 3'rd upon his right hipp

Ed. Weld swone
Will Gill sworne
Tom flint Jurat
Tom West sworne 
Zeb Hill Jurat
Sam Morgan sworne
John Bare Jurat. 

(Reverse) Jury men Return about Jacobs
& Burroughs 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem - Witchcraft, vol. 2, no. 23. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Masssachusetts State Archives, MA. )





( Testimony of Samuel Webber v. George Burroughs )

[August 2, 1692]

Samuel Webber aged about 36 years Testifieth and sayth that aboute seaven or eight Yeares agoe I Lived at Casco Bay and George Burroughs was then Minester there, and haveing heard much of the  great strength of him s'd Burroughs ; he Coming to our house wee  ware in discourse about the same and he then told mee that he had  put his fingers into the Bung of a Barrell of Malasses and lifted it  up, and carryed it Round him and sett it downe againe.
Salem  August 2'd 1692. 
*Samuell Webber
                                Jurat in Curia 

(Reverse) Sam Webber
Cont: Burroughs 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem - Witchcraft, vol. 2, no. 22. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Masssachusetts State Archives, MA. )





( Deposition of Thomas Greenslit v. George Burroughs, Second Version)

[September 15, 1692]

Province of the  Mattathusets Bay  in New EnglandThe deposition of Thomas Greinslitt  aged about forty years Testfieth

Essex Ss. 

That about the breaking Out of this last Indian Warr being at the house of Capt Scottow's at black point he Saw Mr George Burroughs lift and hold Out a gunn of Six foot barrell or thereabouts  putting the forefinger of his right hand into the Muzle of s'd gunn  and So held it Out at Armes End Only with that finger and further this deponent Testifieth that at the Same time he Saw the Said Burroughs take up a full barrell of Malasses w'th but two fingers  of one of his hands in the bung & Carry it from the Stage head to the Door at the End of the Stage Without letting it downe & that Liut Richard Hunniwell & John Greinslitt & Some other persons  that are Since dead Were then present.

Salem Sep'r 15'th 1692 Thomas Greinslitt appeared before their  Maj'ties Justices of Oyer & Terminer in Open Court & Made Oath that the above mentioned perticulars & Every part of them were True
attest *Step. Sewall Clr 

(Reverse) Thomas Green Evidence. Burr

( Witchcraft Papers, no. 10, Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA. )





( Deposition of Simon Willard and William Wormall v. George Burroughs )and Deposition of Simon Willard v. George Burroughs )

[August 3, 1692]

The: Deposition of Simon Willard aged:about forty two years  sayth: I being att the house of Mr Robt Lawrance: at falmoth in  Casco Bay: in Septemb'r 1689 s'd Mr Lawrance was commending Mr George Borroughs his strength: saying that we none of us could doe  what he could doe: for s'd he Mr Borroughs can hold out this gun  with one hand Mr. Borroughs being there: sayd I held my hand here  behind the lock: and took it up: and held it out. I s'd deponant saw  Mr Borroughs: put his hand on the gun: to show us: how he held it  and where he held his hand:and saying there he held his hand when  he held s'd gun out: but:I saw him not hold it out then:
s'd gun was about or near seven foot barrill:and very hevie: I then tryed to hold out s'd gun with both hands: but could not do  it long enough to take sight
*Simon Willard                                     Jurat in Curia 

Simon willard owned:to the Jury of inquest:that the
above  written evidence: is the truth  Aug'st 3: 1692
( Wm Wormall v. Geo. Burroughs .)
Capt Wm Wormall Sworne to the  above & that he Saw him Raise it from the ground, himselfe
Jurat in Curia  

The Deposition of Simon Willard [aged about 42] years saith I  being at Saco in the year [1689] some: in Capt Ed Sarjants garison  was speaking of mr George Borroughs his great strength saying he  Could take:a barrill of mallasses out of a Cannoe or boat alone: and  that he Could. take it in his hands or arms out of the Cannoo or boat  and carry it and set it on the shore: and mr Borroughs being: there  sayd that he had carryed one barrill of molasses.or sider: out of a  cannoo that had like to have done him a displeasure: s'd mr Borroughs intimated: as if he did not want strength to do it but the disadvantage of the shore was such: that his foot slipping in the sand:  he had like to have strained his legg
*Simon Willard                    Jurat in Curia
Simon Willard ownd: to the Jury  of Inquest, that the above written  evidence is the truth 

(Reverse) Simon Willard ag'st Burroughs 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem - Witchcraft, vol. 2, no. 28. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Masssachusetts State Archives, MA. )





( Testimony Mary Webber v. George Burroughs )

[August 2, 1692]

Mary Webber wid aged aboute 53 years Testifieth and sayth that  she liveing at Casco Bay aboute six or seaven years agoe, when  George Burroughs was Minester at s'd place, and liveing a neerer --  Neighbour to s'd Burroughs , was well acquainted with his wife  w'ch was dauter to mr John Ruck of Salem she hath heard her tell  much of her husband unkindness to her and that she dare not wright  to her father to acquaint [him] how it was with her, and soe desired mee to wright to her father that he would be pleased to send for her and told mee she had beene much affrighted, and that something  in the night made anoise in the chamber where she lay as if one Went  aboute the Chamber, and she calling up the negro. to come to her  the negro not Comeing sayd that she could not Come some thing  stopt her, then her husband being called he came up. some thing   Jumped down from between the Chimney & the side of the house  and Run down the stairs and s'd Burroughs followed it down, and  the negro then s'd it was something like a white calfe: another tyme  lyeing with her husband some thing came into the house and stood  by her bed side and breathed on her, and she being much affrighted  at it, would have awakened her husband but could not for a considerable tyme, but as soone as he did awake it went away., but this  I heard her say. and know nothing of it myselfe otherwise Except by  common report of others also concerning such things Salem  August 2'd 1692 
*mary webber 

(Reverse) Mary Webber ve. Burro 

( Witchcraft Papers, no. 9, Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA. )





( Deposition of Hannah Harris v. George Burroughs )

[+ August 5, 1692]

The depotion of Hannah Harres Aiged twenty seven yeares or  thareabouts Testifieth and saith that she Lived at the hous of Georg Burros at falmouth & the above said hannah harres many times hath taken notic that when she hath had anny Discorse with the  above said burross wife when the above said burros was from hom  that apone has Returne he hath often scolded wife and told her that he knew what they said when he was abroad and further saith  that upone a time when his wife had Laine In Not above one weak  that he fell out with his wife and kept her by Discorce at the Dore  till she fell sicke In the place and grew wors at night so that the  above said hannah harres was afraid she would dye and thay called  In thare Naibours and the a bove said burroses Daughter told One  of the women that was thare the cause of her mothers Ellness and  the a bove said burros chid his Daughter for telling and the a bove said burros Came to the a bove said hannah harres and told her If  that his wif Did otherwise than well she should not tell of It  & the abovsaid hannah harres told him that she would not be confined to anny such thing
    Jurat in Curia   

(Reverse) Hannah Harris
ag't Burroughs

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 32.  Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Masssachusetts State Archives, MA. )





(Deposition of Ann Putnam, Jr. v. George Burroughs )

[August 3, 1692]

The Deposition of Ann putnam: who testifieth and saith that on  20'th of April 1692 :at evening she saw the Apperishtion of a Minister  at which she was greviously affrighted and cried out oh dreadfull:  dreadfull here is a minister com:what are Ministers wicthes to: whence  com you and What is your name for I will complaine of:you tho you  be A minister: if you be a wizzard; and Immediatly I was tortored  by him being Racked and all most choaked by him: and he tempted  me to write in his book which I Refused with loud out cries and said  I would not writ in his book tho he tore me al to peaces but tould  him that it was a dreadfull thing: that he which was a Minister that  should teach children to feare God should com to perswad poor  creatures to give their souls to the divill: oh. dreadfull tell me your  name that I may know who you are: then againe he tortored me  & urged me to writ in his book: which I Refused: and then presently  he tould me that his name was George Burroughs and that he had  had three wives: and that he had bewitched the Two first of them to  death: and that he kiled Mist. Lawson because she was so unwilling  to goe from the village and also killed Mr Lawsons child because he  went to the eastward with Sir Edmon and preached soe; to the  souldiers and that he had bewicthed a grate many souldiers to death  at the eastword, when Sir Edmon was their. and that he had made  Abigail Hobbs a wicth and: severall wicthes more: and he has continewed ever sence; by times tempting me to write in his book and  greviously tortoring me by beating pinching and almost choaking me severall times a day and he also tould me that he was above wicth  for he was a cunjurer
                                                                    Jurat in Curia  

wee whose names are under writen being present with Ann putnam att the time above mentioned hard hir declare what is above  writen what she said she saw and hard from the Apperishtion of Mr. George Burroughs : and allso beheld hir tortors:and perceived  her hellish temtations by hir loud out cries I will not I will not writ  tho you torment al days of my life:and being conversant with hir ever sence have  #[every day] seen hir tortored and complaining that Mr. Burroughs  hirt hir.and tempts hir to writ in his Book
                                                                [Edward Putnam]?tag/putnam_edward.html)
                                                                #(Robert Morrell )
Thomas putnam
peter prescott
Ann Puttnam declared har above written evidence to
be the truth:before the Jury of Inquest: Aug'st 3: 92: upon her oath
Ezekiel Chever
made Oath to the latter part.of this paper
                        Jurat in Curia

(Reverse) Ann putnam ag'st
Burroughs 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 24.  Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Masssachusetts State Archives, MA. )

(Letter of Thomas Putnam to John Hathorne &  Jonathan Corwin )

[April 21, 1692 ] 

Salem Village , this 21'st of April, 1692   Much honored:
After most humble and hearty thanks presented to your Honors  for the great care and pains you have already taken for us, for which  we are never able to make you recompense (and we believe you do not expect it of us; therefore a full reward will be given you of the  Lord God of Israel, whose cause and interest you have espoused,  and we trust this shall add to your crown of glory in the day of the  Lord Jesus); and we, beholding continually the tremendous works of  divine providence -- not only every day but every hour -- thought it our duty to inform your Honors of what we conceive you have not heard, which are high and dreadful: of a wheel within a wheel,  at which our ears do tingle.

Humbly craving continually your prayers and help in this distressed case, so praying almighty God continually to prepare you,   that you may be a terror to evil-doers and a praise to them that do well, we remain yours to serve in what we are able.
Thomas Putnam 

( Charles W. Upham, Salem Witchcraft,  Boston, 1867, II, 139-140.)





(Deposition of Ann Putnam, Jr. v. George Burroughs )

[August 3, 1692]

The deposistion of Ann putnam who testifieth and saith that on  the 5'th of may 1692 at evening I saw the apperishtion of Mr George Burroughs who greviously tortored me and urged me to writ in his  book which I refused then he tould me that his Two first wives would appeare to me presently and tell me a grat many lyes but I  should not beleve them:then immediatly appeared to me the forme  of Two women in winding sheats and napkins about their heads: att which I was gratly affrighted: and they turned their faces towards  Mr. Burroughs and looked very red and angury and tould him that he  had been a cruell man to them.and that their blood did crie for vengance against him: and also tould him that they should be cloathed  with white Robes in heaven, when he should be cast into hell: and immediatly he vanished away: and as soon as he was gon the Two  women turned their faces towards me and looked as pail as a white  wall: and tould me that they ware mr Burroughs Two first wives  and that he had murthered them: and one tould me that she was his  first wife and he stabed hir under the left Arme and put a peace of  sealing wax on the wound and she pulled aside the winding sheat  and shewed me the place and also tould me that she was in the house  Mr parish now lives w'n it was don, and the other tould me that Mr Burrough and that wife which he hath now kiled hir in the vessell as she was coming to se hir friends because they would have one  another: and they both charged me that I should tell these things  to the Magestraits before Mr Burroughs face and if he did not own  them they did not know but that they should appere their: thes  morning also Mis Lawson and hir daughter Ann appeared to me  whom I knew: and tould me that Mr Burroughs murthered them:  this morning also appeared to me another woman in a winding sheat and tould me that she was goodman fullers first wife and Mr Burroughs kiled hir because there was sum differance between hir husband and him: also on the 9'th may dureing the time of his ex-  amination he did most greviously torment and afflect Mary Walcott mercy lewes Eliz Hubburd and Abigail williams by pinching prick'g  and choaking them
                                                Jurat in Curia
we whose names are under written being present with ann putnam at the times above mentioned: saw hir tortured and hard hir  refuse to writ in the book also hard hir declare what is above writen:  what she said she saw and hard from the Apperishtion of Mr. George Burroghs and from thos which acc[used him] for murthering of  them
Edward putnam
                                                          #[Robert Morrell]
Thomas putnam 

Ann putnam ownid this har testimomy to be the truth uppon har  oath.before the Juriars of Inquest this: 3. dy of agust 92 

(Reverse) Ann putnam Cont
Geo Burroughs
Death of his wife & Lawson's Childe

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2 Page 26. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Masssachusetts State Archives, MA. )





( Deposition of Sarah Bibber v. George Burroughs )

[August 3, 1692]

The deposistion of Sarah viber who testifieth and saith that on  the 9'th day of may 1692 . as I was agoeing to Salem village I saw  the apperishtion of a little man like a minister with a black coat  on and he pinched me by the arme and bid me goe along with  him but I tould him I would not but when I cam to the village I saw theire Mr. George Burroughs which I never saw before and then  I knew that it was his apperishtion which I had seen in the morning  and he tortured me several times while he was in examination also  dureing the time of his examination I saw Mr. George Burroughs or  his Apparanec most greviously torment and afflect Mary Walcott mercy Luis Elizabeth Hubbert Ann putnam and abigaill williams by pinching twisting & almost choaking them to death also severall times sence mr george Burroughs or his Apperance has most greviously tormented me with variety of tortors and I beleve in my heart that mr George Burroughs is a dreadfull wizzard and that he has most greviously tormented me and the above mentioned parson by his acts of wicthcraft

Sarah Viber declared to the Jury of inquest:that the above  written evidence is the truth:Aug'st 3: 1692 the which she owned on her oath
                            Jurat in Curia   

(Reverse) Sarah Viber ag't
Burroughs (Reverse)  

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2 no. 27. )





(Deposition of Mercy Lewis v. George Burroughs & Statement of Thomas Putnam and Edward Putnam ) v. George Burroughs

[August 3, 1692]

the deposistion of Mircy Lewes who testifieth and saith that one  the 7'th of may 1692 att evening I saw the apperishtion of Mr. George Burroughs whom i very well knew which did greviously  tortor me and urged me to writ in his Book and then he brought to  me a new fashon book which he did not use to bring and tould me  I might writ in that book: for that was a book that was in his studdy  when I lived with them: but I tould him I did not beleve him for  I had been often in his studdy but I never saw that book their: but  he tould me that he had severall books in his studdy which I never  saw in his studdy and he could raise the divell: and now had bewicthed Mr. Sheppards daughter and I asked him how he could goe  to be wicth hir now he was keept at Salem: and he tould me that  the divell was his sarvant and he sent him in his shapp to doe it then  he againe tortored me most dreadfully and threatened to kill me for he said I should not witnes against him also he tould me that he had  made Abigaill Hoobs: a wicth and severall more then againe he did  most dreadfully tortor me as if he would have racked me all to  peaces and urged me to writ in his book or elce he would kill me but I tould him I hoped my life was not in the power of his hand and  that I would not writ tho he did kill me: the next night he tould me  I should not see his Two wifes if he could help it because I should  not witnes agast him this 9'th may mr Burroughs caried me up to an exceeding high mountain and shewed me all the kingdoms of the  earth and tould me that he would give them all to me if I would writ in his book and if I would not he would thro me down and brake my neck: but I tould him they ware non of his to give and I  would not writ if he throde me down on 100 pichforks: also on  the 9'th may being the time of his examination mr. George Burroughs did most dreadfully torment me: and also several times sence

marce luis uppon har oath did owne this har testimony to be the  truth be fore the Juriors for In quest:agust:3: 92.

we whose names are under writen being present hard mircy lewes  declare what is above writen what she said she saw and hard from the  Apperishtion of Mr George Burroughs and also beheld hir tortors  which we cannot express for sume times we ware redy to fear that every joynt of hir body was redy to be displaced: also we perceived  hir hellish temtations by hir loud out cries mr.Burroughs . I will  not writ in your book tho you doe kil me
*Thomas putnam
        Jurat in Curia              [*Edward] Putnam](/tag/putnam_edward.html)  

(Reverse) Mercy Lewis ag'st Burroughs 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 25 )





(Testimony of Elizabeth Hubbard v. George Burroughs )

[May 9, 1692 ]

May the 9. 1692 .

Elizabeth hubord aged about 17 yers saith that the last second day at  night: There apeared a little black beard man to me in blackish  aparill I asked him his name. & he told me his name was borrous,  Then he tooke a booke out of his pocket: & opened it.& bid me set  my hand to it I tould him I would not: the lines in this book was  read as blod; then he pinched me twise & went away: The next morn-  ing.he apeared to me againe.and tould me he was above a wizard; for  he was a conjurar and so went away but sins that he hath apeared  to me every day & night very often and urged me very much to set  my hand to his book: and to run a way telling me if I would do so  I should be well & that I should need feare no body: & withall tor-  mented me severall ways every time he Came exept that time he told  me he was a conjuror: This night he asked me very much to set my  hand to his book or else he sayed he would kill me; withall tortoring me very much by biting and pinching squesing my body and runing pins into me also on the: 9'th may 1692 being the time of  his examination mr George Burroughs or his Apperance did most  greviously afflect and torment the bodyes of Mary Walcott mercy lewes Ann putnam and Abigail williams for if he did but look upon  them he would strick them down or almost choak them to death also  severall times sence he has most dreadfully afflected and tormented  me with variety of torments and I beleve in my heart that mr George Burroughs is a dreadfull wizzard and that he has often tormented me and also the above named parsons by his acts of wicthcraft             Jurat in Curia  

Eliz Hubbard.declared:the above written evedence:to be the truth: upon her oath:that she had taken.this she owned before the Jury of inquest: Aug'st 3 1692  

(Reverse) Eliz: Hubbert ag't burroughs 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 30 )



( Statement of Susannah Sheldon v. George Burroughs )

[+ May 9, 1692 ]

The Complaint of Susannah Shelden against mr burroos which  brought a book to mee and told mee if i would not set my hand too if hee would tear mee to peesses i told him i would not then hee  told mee hee would starve me to death then the next morning he  told mee hee could not starve mee. to death, but hee would choake  me that my vittals should doe me but litl good then he told mee  his name was borros which had preached at the vliage the last night hee Came to mee and asked mee whether i would goe to the village  to morrow to witnes against him i asked him if hee was exsamened  then hee told hee was then i told him i would goe then hee told mee  hee would kil mee beefoar morning then hee apeared to mee at  the hous of nathanniel ingolson and told mee hee had been the death of three children at the eastward and had kiled two of his  wifes the first hee smouthered and the second he choaked and killed tow of his own children

(Reverse) Susannah Shelden against G. Burroughs

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 34 )







( Testimony of Benjamin Hutchinson v. George Burroughs )

[++ April 22, 1692 ]

Benjemin huchension s'd that one the 21'st aprell 92 abegeral  wiluams s'd that there.was a lettell black menester that Lived at  Casko bay he told me so and s'd that he had kild 3 wifes two for  himself and one for mr Losen and that he had made nine Weches in this plase and s'd that he Could hold out the hevest gun that Is  in Casko bay w'th one hand w'c no man Can Case hold out w't  both. hands this Is about a ll a clock and I ask her Where about this  lettel man stood s'd she Just where the Cart wheell went along I  had a 3 graned irne fork in my hnad and I thru it wher she said  he stud and she presently feell in a letel feet and when it twas over  Said She you have toren his coot for I hard it tare wher abouts  said I one won side said she
then we come into the house of left Ingersoll and I went into the  great Roome and abigle come in and said ther he stands I said wher   wher and presently draed my rapyer but he emmedetly was gon as  she said then said she ther is a gray catt then i said wher abouts  doth she stand ther s'd she ther than I struck # [with] with my  rapyer then she fell in afitt and when it was over she said you kild  hur and immedetly Sary good come and carrid hur away this was  about 12 a clock
The same day after lecttor in the said: Ingersolls  chamber abigaill williams mary walcot said that goody hobs of  topfell bitt mary walcot by the foot then both falling into a fit  as soone as it was over the said william hobs and his wife goe both of  them a long the table; the said hucheson tooke his rapier stabed  goody hobs one the side as abigaill williams & mary walcot saide:  the said abigaill & mar said the roome was full of them then the  said hucheson & Ely putnam stabed with their raperres at a ventor  then said mary & abigell you have killed a greet black woman of Stonintown. and an Indian that comes with her for the flore is all covered  with blod.then the said mary and abigaill looked out of dores & said  they saw a greet company of them one a hill & there was three of them lay dead the black woman & the indian & one more that they knew not
This being about.4.a clock in the after noon 

(Reverse) Ben Huchison

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem - Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 35.  )





( Deposition of Abigail Hobbs, Deliverance Hobbs & Mary Warren v. George Burroughs, Sarah Good, Sarah Osburn, Bridget Bishop, Giles Cory, Rebecca Nurse, Elizabeth Procter, Alice Parker, Ann Pudeator Abigail Soames, John Procter,& Lydia Dustin

[June 1, 1692 ]

1st June 1692 

Abigaile Hobbs then confessed before John Hathorn & Jonathan cor- win Esq'rs That at the generall meeting of the Witches in the feild  near Mr Parrisse's house she saw Mr George Burroughs , Sarah Good Sarah Osborne Bridgett Bishop a[lbar ]s. Olliver & Giles Cory , two or  three nights agone, Mr Burrough came & sat at the window & told  her he would terribly afflict her for saying so much ag't him & then  pinched her, deliverance Hobbs then saw s'd Burroughs & he would  have tempted her to sett her hand to the book & almost shooke  her to pieces because she would not doe it,

Mary Warren Testifyeth that when she was in prison in Salem about a fortnight agone Mr George Burroughs , Goody Nurse Goody procter ,   Goody parker, Goody pudeator , Abigail Soames , Goodman procter , Goody Darling [Dowing?] & others unknowne came to this depon't  & Mr Burroughs had a trumpett & sounded it, & they would have  had this depon't to have gone up with them to a feast at Mr parris- ses & Goody Nurse & Goody procter told her this depon't they were Deacons & would have had her eat some of their sweet bread & wine  & she asking them what wine that was one of them said it was blood & better then our wine but this depon't refused to eat or drink with  them & they then dreadfully afflicted her at that tyme.
Sworne the first of June 1692
at that time                Before us   *John Hathorne 
*Jonathan Corwin { Assis'ts 

M[emoran]d[um]. that at the time of the taking of this deposicon Goody Nurse appeared in the roome & afflicted the Depon't Mary & Deliverance Hobbs as they attested & alsoe almost Choaked abigaile Hobbs as alsoe testified, & Mr English then run a pin into Maryes hand as she  attested 

( Witchcraft Papers, no. 6, Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA. )





(Testimony of Mary Warren v. George Burroughs, John Alden,  Elizabeth Cary, and Ann Pudeator)

[August 3, 1692]

The Testimone of Mary Warren aged twenty yeares or thereaboutes  Testifeyeth and saith that Sometime in July last mr Burrougs pinched  mee very much and choaked me almost to death: and I saw and  hard him sound a Trumpett and Immediatly I saw severall com to him as namely Capt Allding Mis Cary and goody pudeater and severall others and they urged me to goe along with them to their  sacremental meeting and mr Burroughs brought to me bread to eat  and wine to drink which I Refuseing he did most greviously torment me urging me vehemently to writ in his book: also I have seen mr George Burroughs or his Apperance most greviously tormenting mary walcott and Ann putnam and I verily beleve in my heart that Mr. George Burroughs is a dreadfull wizzard and that he has severall times tormented me and the affore said persons by his acts of wicthcraft

Mary Warrin declared: upon: her oath; to the Jury of Inquest that  the above written
evidence: is the truth. Aug'st 3: 1692

( Witchcraft Papers, no. 8, Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA. )



( Deposition of Mary Walcott v. George Burroughs )

[August 3, 1692]

The Deposition of Mary Walcott agged about 17 years who testi-  fieth and saith that on the later end of April 1692: mr. George Burroughs or his Apperance came to me whom I formerly well  knew: and he did Immediatly most greviously torment me by biting  pinching and almost choacking me urging me to writ in his book:  which I refusing he did -- againe most greviously torment me and  tould me if I would but touch his book I should be well but I tould  him I would not for all the world and then he threated to kil me and  said I should never witnes against him: but he continewed tortering  and tempting me tell the 8 may: and then he tould me he would  have kiled his first wife and child: when his wife was in travil but he had not the power: but he  keept hir in the kithin tell he gave hir hir deaths wound.but he  charged me in the name of his God I should not tell of it:but Immediatly there appeared to me mr.Burroughs two first wives in their  winding sheets whom I formerly well knew and tould me that mr. Burroughs had murthered them and that their blood did crie for  vengance againt him: also on the 9'th may being the day of his ex-  amination he did most greviously torment me dureing the time of  his examination for if he did but look on me he would strick me  down or allmost Choake me: also dureing his examination I saw mr. George Burroughs or his Apperane most greviously torment mercy lewes Eliz Hubb [e] rt Abigail william and Ann putnam and I  beleve in my heart that mr. George Burroughs is a dreadful wizzard and That he had often afflected and tormented me and the afore mentioned parsons by his acts of wicthcraft

Mary Walcot declared this writing to be a true evidence: to the Jury
of Inquest Aug'st 3 1692 upon the oath she has taken
                                Jurat in Curia  

( Witchcraft Papers, no. 7a, Mass. Hist. Society )





(Summons for John Pierce and John Lane)

[August 4, 1692]

Wm & Mary by the Grace of God of England Scotland france &  Ireland King & queen defend'rs of the faith &ca --

Wee Comand you to Warn & give Notice unto John Pierce and John lane 

that they & Every of them be & personaly app'r forthwith at  the pr'sent Court of Oyer & Termin'r holden at Salem to Testify  the truth to the best of thier knowledge on certain Indicm'ts Exhibited against mr George Burrough hereof Make return fail Not  dated in Salem Aug't 4'th 1692 in the fourth yeare of Our Reign
*Stephen Sewall , Cler. 

To the Constable of Manchester  August 4'th I have Sumoned the above named that thay and Each  of them att time and place above written by me *John Ley 

(Reverse) A Summons for
John Pierce and
John lane
Contra Geo
Burroughs

( Witchcraft Papers 7b, Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA. )





(Deposition of Thomas Putnam and Edward Putnam v. George Burroughs )

[+ May 9, 1692]

The deposistion of Tho. putnam aged 40: years and Edward putnam  agged 38 years who testifieth and saith. that we haveing ben conversant with severall of the afflected persons as maryWolcott mercy lewes Eliz: Hubburt and we have seen them most dreadfully tomented and we have seen dreadfull marks in their fleesh which they said Mr. Burroughs did make by hurting them: but on 9'th may 1692 : the day of the Examination of Mr. George Burroughs the afforesaid parsons were most dreadfully tormented dureing the time of his Examination as if they would have been torne al to peaces or all their bones putt out of joynt and with such tortors as no  tounge can express also severall times sence we have seen the afforesaid afflected parsons most dreadfully tormented and greviously complaining of Mr. Burroughs for hurting them and we beleve that Mr. George Burroughs the prisoner att the bar has severall times af-  flected and tormented the afforesaid persons by acts of wicthcraft
*Thomas putnam 
                        Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) Thos. Putnam
Ed. Putnam

( Withcraft Papers, 11a, Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA., Boston, MA., Boston. )





( Deposition of John Putnam, Sr. and Rebecca Putnam v. George Burroughs )

[+ May 9, 1692]

the Deposition of John putnam & Rebecah his wife testifieth  and saith that in the yeare :80: Mr Burros lived in our house nine  month, there being a great differanc betwixt Sd Barros & his wife, the differanc was so great that they did Desier us the deponants  to com into their room to hear their difference, the contrivercy that was betwixt them was that the afor s'd Burros did rquier his  wife to give him a written covenant under her hand and Seall that  shee would never reveall his secrits, our anser was that they had  once made a covenant before god and men which covenant we did  conseive did bind each other to keep their lawfull secrits, and further saith that all the time that s'd Burros did live att our house he was a very sharp man to his wife, notwithstanding to our observation  shee was a very good and dutifully wife to him
                            Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) Jno Putm
& Reb. his wife. 

( Essex Institute Collection, no. 25 Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, M.A. )



( Statement of Elizar Keyser v. George Burroughs )

[August 3, 1692]

Elizer Keysar aged aboute fourty five yeares Sayth that on Thursday  last past being the fift day of this Instant moneth of May I was at  the house of Thomas [Beadles] in salem, and Capt Daniell King being  there also, at the same tyme, and in the Same Roome. s'd Capt  Daniell King Asked mee Whether I would not goe up, and see mr Burrows and discourse with him. he being then in one of the Chambers in s'd House. I told him itt did not belong to mee, and I was  not willing to medle or make with itt, then s'd King sayd are you not  a Christian if you are a Christian goe [&] see him and discourse with  him, but I told him I did beleive it did not belong to such as I was to  discourse him he being a Learned man. then s'd King sayd I beleive  he is a Child of god, a Choice Child of god, and that God would  Clear up his Inocency; soe I told him my Opinion or feare was,  that he was, the Cheife of all the persons accused for witchcraft or the Ring Leader of them -- all, and told him also that I beleived  if he was such an one his Master meening the divell had told him  before now, what I said of him, And s'd King seemeing to mee to be  in a passion. I did afterwards forbeare #[The same Evening after  these words being alone in one Roome of my house and noe candle  or light being in the s'd Roome] the same afternoone I haveing Occation to be at the s'd Beadles house and [being] in the Chamber  where mr George Burroughs Keept I observed that s'd Burroughs did  steadfastly fix [his] eys upon mee, the same Evening being in my  own house, in a Roome without any Light I did see very strange  things appeare in the Chimney. I suppose a dozen of them. w'ch  seemed to mee to be something like Jelly that used to be in the water  and quaver with a strainge Motion, and then quickly diappeared  soone after which I did see a light up in the chimney aboute the  bigness of my hand some thing above the bar w'ch quivered  & shaked. and seemed to have a Motion upward upon Which I called  the Mayd, and she looking up into the Chimney saw the same, and  my wife looking up could not see any thing, soe I did and doe  #[very Certainly] [Concider] it was some diabolicall apperition  

Mr. Elizer. Keyzer: declared: to the Jury of Inquest that the evidence: in this paper is the truth upon oath: Aug'st 3 1692 Mercy Lewis. also: s'd that: Mr Borroughs: told her that: he made lights: in Mr Keyzers: Chimny

Jurat in Curia by Mr Keysor](/tag/keyser_elizer.html)  Sworne also by  Eliz: Wardwell as to the last night 

( Manuscripts and Archives Division, Salem Selections, New York Public Library, New York, NY. )





(Memorandum in Case of George Burroughs )

Memorand'm in mr George Burroughs Tryall besides the written Evidences that was Sworne sev'll who gave theirs by word of mouth  & Major Browne holding Out a heavy Gun w'th One hand

Thomas Ruck of his sudden coming in after them & that he could tell his thoughts.

Thomas Evans that he Carried Out Barrels Molossus & Meats &c  out of a Canoo whilst his mate.went to the fort for hands to help  out with them

These since the execution of Mr Burro:

Sarah Wilson Confess't that the night before mr Burroughs was  Executed that there was a great Meeting of the witches Nigh Sarj't Chandlers that mr Burr. was there & they had the Sac't[= sacrament]  & after they had done he tooke leave & bid them Stand to their faith, & not own any thing

Martha Tyler saith the same w'th Sarah Wilson & Severall others  (on side) These Since the Execucion of Mr. Burro

(Reverse) Mr. Burr

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 36. )



(Deposition of Thomas Greenslit v. George Burroughs)

[September 15, 1692]

Tho Greenslitt: aged about forty years being deposed Testifieth yt about the first breaking out of the [letters crossed out] last Indian warre [word crossed out] being att the house of Captn Joshua Scotts at Black point. this deponent saith yt he saw Mr George Burrowswho was lately Executed at Salem lift a gunn of six ffoott Barrell or thereabouts putting the his forefinger of his right hand into the muzell of sd gunn and that he held it out att arms and only wth thatt finger, and further this deponent testifieth thatt about at the same time he saw the said Burrows Take up a full barrll of e molasses wth butt two of his fingers of one of his hands in the bung, and carry itt from ye stage head to the door att the end of the stage wth out letting itt downe & that Liut. Richd.Hanniwell & John Greinslett were then present & some others yt are dead. 

Thomas Greinslit Sepr. 15. 92.
his T marke. 

Jurat

Essex County Court Records, Vol. 2, No. 33. James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA.

(Fragment of a statement of Richard Carrier, Mary Lacey & Mary Lacey, Jr. vs. George Burroughs)

[August 3, 1692]

Richard Carrier affirmed to the jury that he saw Mr. George Burroughs at the witch meeting at the village and saw him adminster the sacrament. Mary Lacy, senr. And her daughter Mary affirmed that Mr. George Burroughs was at the witch meetings and witch sacraments, and that she knows Mr. Burroughs to be of the company of witches. Aug. 3, 1692.

Thomas Hutchinson,The History of the Colony and Province of Massachusetts-Bay (1767.) Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1936, vol. II, p. 42.