SWP No. 024: Martha Carrier Executed, August 19, 1692

[May 28, 1692 ]





(Complaint of Joseph Houlton & John Walcot v. Martha Carrier , Elizabeth Fosdick ,  Wilmott Redd , Sarah Rice , Elizabeth How , John Alden ,  William Proctor , John Flood , Mary Toothaker and  daughter, and Arthur Abbott )

[May 28, 1692 ]

Salem May the 28'th 1692 

Joseph Houlton and John Walcot both of Salem village Yeomen made  Complaint in behalfe of theire Majes'ts against Carrier  of Andover the wife of Thomas Carrier of s'd Towne husbandman fosdick of Maulden or charlstown  Reed of Marblehead the wife of Samull Reed of s'd place [] Rice of Reding  the wife of Nicholas Rice of s'd Towne [] How the wife of James How of Topsfeild Capt John Alden of Boston Mariner, William procter of Salem farmes, Capt John flood of Rowley marsh on boston Mary Toothaker , the wife of Roger toothaker of Belrica, and Toothaker the daughter of s'd Roger Toothaker Abott that lives between Ips. Topsfeild & wenham for sundry acts of Witchcraft by them and Every one of them Committed on the  Bodys of Mary Walcot , Abigail Williams Marcy Lewis Ann putnam  and Others belonging to Salem Village or farmes Lately, to the hurt and Injury of theire bodys therefore Craves Justice.

*Joseph houlton
*John Walcutt 

Carrier of Andover---Marshall Essex
Reed of Marblehead--Const--
Rice of Reding--Const--- 
How of Topsfeild---Const
Wm procter ---Const-- 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem Witchcraft. vol.1, no. 309. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, MA. )





(Warrant for apprehension of Martha Carrier, and Officer's Return )

[May 28, 1692 ]

To the Marshall of Essex or his dept or to the Constables of Andover
You are in theire Majests names hereby required [to] apprehend  and forthwith secure, and bring before [us] martha Carrier the wife  of Thomas Currier of An[dover] on Tuesday next being the 31't  day of this Instant mo[nth] of May about ten of the clock in the forenoon or as soon as may be afterwards at [the] house of L't  Nathaniell Ingersalls in Salem Village who stands charged with have-  ing Committed Sundry [acts] of Witchcraft on the Bodys of Mary Walcot and abi[gail] williams of Salem Village to theire great hurt  & [injury] in order to her Examination Relateing to the prem[ises]  abovesaid faile not
Dated Salem  May 28'th 1692. 
                                                  per us  *John Hathorne
*Jonathan.Corwin  Assis'ts 

(Reverse) I have apprehend the w'tin named parson
and brought her  to the place appinted -- 

by me *John Ballard. const andover 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem - Witchcraft. Vol. 1, no. 310. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, MA. )







(Examination of Martha Carrier )

[May 31, 1692 ]

The Examination of Martha Carrier . 31. May. 1692 

Abigail Williams w'o hurts you?
Goody Carrier of Andover.
Eliz: Hubbard who hurts you?
Goody Carrier
Susan:Sheldon , who hurts you?
Goody Carrier , she bites me, pinches me, & tells me she would cut  my throat, if I did
not signe her book
Mary Walcot said she afflicted her & brought the book to her.
What do you say to this you are charged with?
I have not done it.
Sus:Sheldon cried she looks upon the black man.
Ann Putman complained of a pin stuck in her.
What black man is that?
I know none
Ann Putman testifyed there was.
Mary Warrin cryed out she was prickt.
What black man did you see?
I saw no black man but your own presence.
Can you look upon these & not knock them down?
They will dissemble if I look upon them.
You see you look upon them & they fall down
It is false the Devil is a liar.
I lookt upon none since I came into the room but you
Susan:Sheldon cryed out in a Trance I wonder what could you  murder. 13. persons?
Mary Walcot testifyed the same that there lay.13. Ghosts.
All the afflicted fell into most intollerable out-cries & agonies.
Eliz: Hubbard & Ann Putman testifyed the same that she had killed  13. at Andover.
It is a shamefull thing that you should mind these folks that are out  of their wits.
Do not you see them?
If I do speak you will not believe me?
You do see them, said the accusers.
You lye, I am wronged.
There is the black man wispering in her ear said many of the afflicted.
Mercy Lewes in a violent fit, was well upon the examinants grasping her arm.

The Tortures of the afflicted was so great that there was no enduring of it, so that she was ordered away & to be bound hand & foot with  all expedition the afflicted in the mean while almost killed to the great trouble of all spectators Magistrates & others.

Note. As soon as she was well bound they all had strange & sodain ease.
Mary Walcot told the Magistrates that this woman told her she  had been a witch this. 40. yeares.

(Reverse) Martha Carriers
Carrier Examina'ion

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 311. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, MA. )





(Indictment No. 1 of Martha Carrier , for Afflciting Mary Walcott)

[+ July 1, 1692 ]

Anno Regis et Reginae Willm  et Mariae Nunc Angliae &c Quarto./

Essex ss The Jurors: for our Sovereigne Lord & Lady the King and  Queen pr'sents that #[Bridgett] Martha Carrier wife of #(Richard) Thomas Carrier of Andover in the County of Essex husbandman the  thirty first Day of May -- in the fourth Year of the Reigne of our Sovereigne Lord and Lady William and Mary by the Grace of God of England Scottland france and Ireland King, and Queen Defenders of the faith &c and divers other Dayes and times as well before, as  after, certaine Detestable Arts called Witchcrafts and Sorceries, Wickedly and feloniously hath Used. Practised. and Exercised, at and within the Towneship of Salem in the County of Essex afores'd in, Upon, and against, one Mary Walcott of Salem Village Singlewoman in the County of Essex afores'd by which said wicked Arts the said Mary Walcott the thirty first Day of May -- in the fourth year above said and divers other Dayes and times, as well before, as  after, was and is Tortured, Afflicted, Pined, Consumed wasted  & Tromented ag't the Peace of our Sovereigne Lord and Lady the King and Queen and against the forme ofthe Statute in that case made and Provided./

Witnesses

Ju't  Mary Walcott
Jur't  Elizabeth Hubbard
Ann Putman 

(Reverse) Martha Carrier (No 1)
bila uera
No 1. Martha. Carier   

( Witchcraft Papers, no. 15, Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA.)





(Indictment No. 2 of Martha Carier , for Afflicting Elizabeth Hubbard )

[+ July 1, 1692 ]

Anno Regis et Reginae Willm et  Mariae nunc Angliae &c Quarto:

Essex ss The Jurors of our Sovereigne Lord and Lady the King  and Queen: pr'sents That Martha Carrier wife of #[Richard] Thomas  Carier of Andover in the county of Essex husbandman the 31 Day of May in the forth year of the Reigne of our Sovereigne Lord and Lady  William and Mary by the Grace of God of England Scottland france  and Ireland King and Queen Defenders of the faith: &c And Divers  other Dayes and Times as well before as after, certaine Detestable  Arts called Witchcrafts: and Sorceries, Wickedly and felloniously  hath used Practised and Excercised at and within the Towneship  of Salem in the County of Essex afores'd in and upon and ag't one Elizabeth Hubbard of Salem in the County of Essex afores'd  by which said Wicked Arts. the said Elizabeth Hubbard the thirty first Day of May in the forth Year aboves'd and Divers other Dayes,  and times, as well before as after was and is Tortured Afflicted Pined  Consumed Wasted and Tormented ag't the Peace of our Sovereigne  Lord and Lady the King and Queen: and ag't the forme of the Statute in that case made and Provided

Witnesses

Elizabeth Hubbard Jurat.
Mary Walcutt Jurat.
Ann Putnam
Mary Warren Jurat. 

(Reverse) bila vera
No 2 Martha Carier 

( Essex County Archives Salem - Witchcraft Vol. 1 No. 312.  Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, MA. )





(Summons for Witnesses v. Martha Carrier and Officer's Return )

[July 30, 1692 ]

Wm & Mary by the Grace of God of England Scotland France  & Ireland

King & Queen defend'rs of the faith &ca 

To the Constable or Constables of Andover Greeting 
Wee Comand you to Warn & give Notice unto Allen Toothaker Ralph farnum Jun'r John farnum son of Ralph farnum sen'r Benjamin Abbot & his wife Andrew foster Phebe Chandler daughter  of Wm Chandler : Sam'l Holt Sen'r Samuel Preston Jun'r 

[Greeting] that they  & Every of them be and personaly appear at the Court of Oyer & Terminer to be held by adjournment on Tuesday Next at Ten of the  Clock in the Morning there to testifye the truth to the best of their  knowledge on certain Indictments to be Exhibited against Marth Carrier of Andover hereof fail not at your utmost perill & make return  of your doings herein

Dated in Salem  July 30'th 1692 ---                 *Stephen Sewall Cle. 

(Reverse) In obedenc to this writ I have timely
warned the persons hose names are herein writen and
every one of them this I day of  august 1692 

By mee *John Ballard
         constable of Andover 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem - Witchcraft Vol. 1 No. 313.  Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, MA. )





(Summons for Witnesses v.Martha Carrier and Officer's Return )

[July 30, 1692 ]

William & Mary by the Grace of God of England Scotland
France  & Ireland King & Queen defend'rs of the faith &ca

To the Constable of Billrica Greeting. -- 

Wee Comand you to Warn & give Notice unto
Capt Danforth -- John Rogers & 

that they & Every of them be and personaly appear at the  Court of Oyer & Terminer to be held by Adjurnment Att Salem on  Tuesday Next at Ten of the Clock in the Morning there to testify the truth to the best of their knowledge on Certaine Indict-  ments to be Exhibited against Martha Carrier of Andover and hereof they Nor you are to fail at your utmost perill making return hereof  under your hand. --

Dated in Salem  July 30'th 1692  & in the fourth year of Our Reign  

*Stephen Sewall Cler. 

(Reverse)According to this warrant I have shewd it to Capt Danforth, & his Answr
is, that hee can say nothing in yt case, that is worth mentioning, I have warned
John Rogers, & he saith he will attend if his garison may guarded in his absence 

Billerica #[Ahgr] August 1st. 92
James paterson , Cconst: 

( Witchcraft Papers No. 18. Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA. )





( Testimony of Benjamin Abbott v. Martha Carrier )

[August 3, 1692 ]

The teastymony of Benjamin Abbutt aged about 31 years Saith:  last march was twelfe months: then haveing Some land granted to  me by the Touwne of Andover Near to good man Carriers his land,  & when this land Came to be laied out goodwiffe Carrier was verÿ  Angerÿ , & said that she would stick as Closs to Benjamin Abbut as  the bark stooke to the Tree & that I should Repent of it afore Seven  years Came to an Eand & that doctor prescott Could Never Cure  me: These words were heard bÿ Allin Toothaker She also Said to  [Ralph farnam Jun'r](/tag/farnham_ralph_jr.html) that she would hold my noss so Closs to the  grindstone as Ever it was held since mÿ Name was Benjamin Abbut: presently after I was taken with a swelling in mÿ foott & then was taken with a paÿne in mÿ side Ecksidienglÿ Tormented, wich bred  to a sore: which was lancit bÿ docter prescott & severall gallons of Corruption did Run out as was Judged & so Continued about six weeks Verÿ bad, & then one other sore did breed in mÿ grine wich  was lancit bÿ doct.prescott also: & Continued verÿ bad a while & then on other sore breedin mÿ grine which was also Cutt: & putt me to verÿ great misserÿ , so that it brough me almost to Deaths doore,  & Continued, untill goodwiffe Carrier was Taken & Carried a waÿe by the Constable & that verÿ daÿ I begun to grow better, mÿ soers  grew well & I grew better Everÿ daÿ: & so have been well Ever since: & have great cause to think that the s'd Carrier had a great hand in my sickness & misery

*benjamen Abbut

Jurat in Curia  Aug't 3'd. 1692.   Attest *Step. Sewall Cle. /

The deposition of Sarah Abbott aged about 32 years testifieth  that since my husband had a parcell of land granted by the Towne, lying near the land of Thomas Carrier, (Which as I have heard) his  wife Martha Carrier was greatly troubled att & gave out Threatening  words) that my husband Benjamin Abbott has not been only afflicted in his body, as he testifies, but alsoe that strange & unusuall  things has happened to his Cattle, for some have died suddenly  & strangely, which we could not tell any naturall reason for, & one  Cowe Cleaned a fourthnight before she Calved, but the Cowe died  afterwards strangely though she calved well soe far as we Could  p'rceive , & some of the Cattle would Come out of the woods w'th  their tounges hanging out of their mouths in a strange & affrighting manner, & many such things, which we can give noe account of  the reason of, unless it should be the effects, of martha Carriers  threatnings  

Aug't 3'd 1692                      attest  her mark.

Juriat: in Curia                    Sarah Abbott
*Steph:Sewall Cler. 

(Reverse) Ben Abbott & wife 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 314. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, MA.  )





(Deposition of John Rogers v. Martha Carrier )

[August 2, 1692 ]

The deposition of John Rogger of Billreca aged 50 yeares or Thereabouts Saith

That about Seven yeares since Martha Carrier being a Nigh Neigbour unto this depon't and there hapening some difference betwixt us she gave forth severall threatning words as she often used to doe  and in a short time after this deponent had two large lusty Sowes  w'ch frequented home daily that were lost & this deponent: found  one of them dead Nigh the s'd Carriers house w'th both Eares cut  of & the other sow I Never heard of to this day; & the same summer  to the best of my rembrance I had a Cow w'ch used to give a good  Mess of milke twice a day & of a sudden she would give little or  None Every Morning though a Nights she gave as formerly and this Continued above the space of a month in w'ch time I had three  Meals milke on three severall Mornings not successively: and no  more though One Night three of us Watched the Cow all night  #[one night] yet I could have no milke in the morning of her & about the monthes End she gave milke as formerly she used, by all  w'ch. I did in my Conscience beleive then in the day of it & have so  done Ever since & doe yet beleive that Martha Carrier was the occasion of those Ill accidents. by Meanes of Witchcraft she being a very  Malicous Woman & further Saith Not

John Rogger 

Ing. Sam Holt Andover about M.C.
Capt. Danforth Billerica 

(Reverse) Court O.  & Ter. by Adjt
Jno Rogger of Billrica ver: Marth: Carrier 

Aug't 2.92 Carrier 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 No. 315. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, MA. )





(Deposition of Phoebe Chandler and Testimony of [Bridget] Chandler](/tag/chandler_bridget.html) v. Martha Carrier )

[+ August 3, 1692 ]

The deposition of Phoebe Chandl'r aged about 12 years:

Testifieth That about a fourthnight before Martha Carrier , was sent for to Salem to be examined, upon the Sabbath day when the psalm was singing, s'd Martha Carrier took me s'd deponent by the  shoulder & shaked me, in the meeting house & asked me where I lived: but I made her no answere, (not doubting but that she knew  me, having lived some time the next door to my fathers house, on one side of the way) & that day that s'd Martha Carrier was ceased,  my mother sent me to Carry some bear to the folks that were att  work in the lott, & when I came within the fence there was a voice in the bushes(which I thought was Martha Carriers voice, which I  knowe well) but saw noe body, & the voice asked me, what I did  there & whether I was going: which greatly frighted me, soe that I run as fast as I could to those att work, & told them what I had  heard, about an hour & half, or two hours after, my mother sent me  again upon the same occasion, to the workmen aboves'd Coming  home, near the place aboves'd where I heard that voice before, I heard the same voice, as I judged, over my head, saying I should be  poysoned within two or three days, which accordingly happened, as I Conceive, for I went to my sister Allens farm the same day, and on  friday following, about one half of my right hand was greatly swolen  & exceeding painfull, & allsoe part of my face, which I can give noe account how it Came & Continued very bad some days, & severall  times since I have been troubled with a great weight upon my breast, & upon my leggs, when I have been going about, soe that I could  hardly goe, which I have told my mother of: And the last sabbath day was seaven night, I went to meeting very well in the morning,  & went to my place where I used to sitt (the ministers not being Come)  & Richard Carrier son of aboves'd Martha looked very earnestly upon me, & imediately my hand which had formerly been poy-soned as aboves'd, began to pain me greatly, & I had a strange burning att my stomake, & then was struck deaf that I could not hear  any of the prayer, nor singing, tell the two or three last words of the singing:
                                    Jurat in Curia   her M mark  Phoebe Chandler 

Bridget Chandler aged 40 years Mother to the s'd Phoebe
Testifieth that in the day of it her daughter Complained as above is Expressed.
                                                                Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) Phebe Chandler 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no.  316. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, MA.  )





(Deposition of Allen Toothaker v. Martha Carrier)

[+ August 3, 1692 ]

The deposition of Allin Toothaker aged about 22 years Saith  I heard Martha Carrier Saÿ that Benjamin Abbutt would wish he  had not medled with that land so Near our houwse for she would  stick as Cols to him as the barck to the tree, afore seaven years Com  a bout, & that doctor prescott should Never Cure him, & about last march Richard Carrier & mÿ selfe had som difference, & said Richard pulled me downe by the haer of mÿ head to the ground for to  beat me: I desired him to lett me Risse, when I was up I went to strick at him, but I fell downe flate upon my back to the ground  & had not power to ster hand Nor foote, then I toold sayd Richard  I would yeald to him & owne him the best man & then I saw Martha Carrier goe of from mÿ brest, butt when I was Rissen up I saw non of  her, I was Wounded in the Warre, Martha Carrier tould me I Would  Never be Cured, afore she was Aprehended I Could thrust in mÿ  Wound a knitting Nedle four Inches deep but, since she have been Taken I am thorowlÿ healed: and have had more Ease then I have  had in halfe a year before Sometimes when Martha Carrier & I had some difference she would Clap her hand at me & saÿ I should gett.  Nothing by it: & #[still] with i[numl ] a daÿ, or two: I lost a three year  old heffer: Next a yealin: & then a Couw; & then had som litle difference a gaine & lost a yearlin, #[ -- -- these aboves'd Creatures  which died, I could not Learn of any reason for their -- -- ] And I  knowe not of any naturall Causes of the death of the abovs'd Creatures, but have always feared it hath been the effect of my Aunt  Martha Carrier her malice:  

(Reverse) Allen Toothaker 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 No. 317. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, MA. )





(Testimony of Samuel Preston v. Martha Carrier )

[+ August 3, 1692 ]

Samuel Preston aged about 41: years Saith that about 2 yeares since I had some difference w'th Martha Carrier w'ch also had hapened sever'll times before and soon after I lost a Cow in a strange  manner being Cast upon her back w'th her heels up in firm ground when she was very Lusty it being in June & within abo't month after this the s'd Martha & I had some difference again at which Time she told me I had lost a Cow lately & it Would not or should not be long before I should loose Another w'ch accordingly came to pass. for I had a Cow that was well kept w'th English Hay & I could not p'rceive that she aild any thing & yet she pined & quickley lay downe  as if she was asleep & dyed                                   
                                              Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) Sam. Preston
ag't Martha Carrier 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 318. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, MA.  )





(Deposition of Elizabeth Hubbard v. Martha Carrier )

[July 1, 1692]

The deposistion of Eliz: Hubburd agged about 17 years who testi-  fieth and saith that I have been along time afflected by a woman that  tould me hir name was Carrier and that she came from Andevore but  on the 31:may 1692 martha Carrier did most greviously tortor. me  dureing the time of hir Examination for if she did but look upon me she would strick me down or almost choak me and also I saw martha Carrier most greviously torment Mary Walcott, mercy lewes, Abigail williams and ann putnam jun'r with such dreadfull tortor as no tongue  can express: that had not the Honr'd Majestrats Commanded hir to  be fast bound I beleve she would have quickly kiled sume of us: and I verily beleve in my hart that martha Carrier is a most dreadful  wicth for severall times sence martha Carrier #[or hir Apperance]  has been in prison she hath or hir Apperance com to me and most greviously tortored me by pinching pricking and [and] almost choaking me to death: which I beleve she could not doe if she ware not a wicth/

Elizabeth Hubburd: owned: the above written evidence: to be the truth: to the Jury of Inquest: upon: the oath: she hath taken:  July: 1: 1692
                                                  Jurat in Curia  

( Witchcraft Papers no. 17a, Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA.)





(Deposition of Mary Walcott v. Martha Carrier )

[July 1, 1692]

The deposistion of Mary Walcott agged about 18 years who testifieth and saith that I have ben a long time afflected by a woman  which tould me hir name was Carrier and that she came from Ande-  vor but on the 31'th may 1692 : martha Carrier of Andever did most  greviously torment me dureing the time of hir Examination by  biting pricking pinching and all most Choaking me to death for if  she did but look upon me she would strik me down or allmost Choak me to death also on the day of hir Examination I saw martha Carrier most greviously torment and afflect mercy lewes Elizabeth Hubburd abigail williams and ann putnam jun'r by most dreadfully pricking and claping hir hand on their throats and allmost choaking  them to death and with such cruell tortors as no toung can Express:  that had not the Hon'rd Majestrats Command hir to be bound fast #[heart I beleve] I believe she would have quickly kild sum of us: and I beleve in my heart that Martha carrier is a most dreadfull wicth and that she hath tormented me and the parsons affore named by hir acts of wicthcraf

Mary Walcot: owned: to: the Jury of inquest that the above written evidence: is the truth. upon the oath she hath taken: July 1: 1692
                                                            Jurat in Curia  

( Witchcraft Papers, no. 17b, Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA. )





( Deposition of Thomas Putnam and John Putnam, Jr. v. Martha Carrier )

[+ August 3, 1692]

The Deposistion of Thomas putnam agged 40 years and Jno putnam  aged 36 years -- who testifie and saith that we haveing ben conversant with divers of the afflected parsons as namely Mary Walcott mercy lewes Abigail williams Eliz. Hubburt and Ann putnam and we have  seen tham often most greviously tormented by biting pinching and being almost Choak to death often Complaining of one goody Carrier for hirting them: but on the 31: may 1692 being the day of  the Examination of martha Carrier the afforementioned parsons  ware most dreadfully tormented dureing the time of hir examination  that had not the Hon'd Majestrats commanded hir to be bound we ware redy to think she would quickly have kiled sum of them: also severall times sence we have seen the affore mentioned most dreadfully affleted and tormented as if all their bones would  have been disjoyned or [their] bodyes twisted all to peces complaining most dreadfully of Martha Carrier for hurting them and we beleve in our hearts that Martha Carrier the prizsoner att the barr  has most dreadfully tormented and most greviously afflected the  affore mentioned parsons by acts of wicthcraft
*Thomas putnam
*Jno putnam
                                                                        Jurat in Curia  

( Witchcraft Papers, no. 21a, Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA. )



( Testimony of Andrew Foster v. Martha Carrier )

[+ August 3, 1692]

The tistimony of Andrew foster aged about 55 who saith that some  time Last may I being at the hous of Thomas Carrier I was saieing  that I hard that when Timothy oosgood and his Brother Samuell want to Salam the other day thay goeing to Let Engerson one of the  afflicted maides lucked [=looked] out and asked what thay brought them three woman behind them fore thay asked what woman the maid sayd Goodwife Carrier goodwife Touthacor and hir dughter and thay goeing into Engerson hous thay askeed the maide where goodwife carrier was shee Answared thar shee sits by you upon the table upon  which the maide had a fitt: which #[almost] twisted her nick  almost round of. then goodwife carrier Answared no it is no matter if hir nicke had ben quite of if shee sayd I was thiere
                                                                        Jurat in Curia  

( Witchcraft Papers, no. 21b, Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA. )