SWP No. 107: John Proctor Executed, August 19, 1692

(See also: Martha Corey -- Mittimus; Elizabeth Proctor -- Petition.)







( Statement of Samuel Parris Concerning Abigail Williams,  & Mary Wolcott v. John Proctor, Elizabeth Proctor, Sarah Cloyce, Martha Cory, Rebecca Nurse, Sarah Good, & Dorothy Good)

[+ April 4, 1692]

1692  Apr. 4. Abig: Williams complained of Goodm Proctor & cryed out w't are you come to, #[are you come to,] you can pinch as well as your wife & more to that purpose

6. At night she complained of Goodm: Proctor again & beat upon her breast & cryed he pinched her. The like I hear at Tho. Putmans house.

12. Day, When the Marshall was sent up to enquire of John Proctor & others & I was writing some what thereof as above I met with nothing but interruptions by reason of fits upon John Indian & Abigail , & Mary Walcot happening to come in just before, they one & another cryed out there is Goodm: Proctor very often: And Abigail said there is Goodm: Proctor in the Majstrats lap, at the same time Mary Walcot was sitting by a knitting we asked her if she saw Goodm: Proctor (for Abigail was immediately seized with a fit) but she was deaf & dumb, yet still a knitting, then Mary recovered her self & confirmed what Abigail had said that goodm: proctor she saw in the Majstrats lap Then John cryed out to the Dog under the Table to come away for Goodm: Proctor was upon his back, then he cryed out of Goody Cloyse , O you old Witch, & fell immediately into a violent fit that 3.men & the Marshall could not without exceeding difficulty hold him: In which fit Mary Walcot that was knitting & well composed said there was Goodm: Proctor & his wife & Goody Cloyse helping of him. But so great were the interruptions of John & Abigail by fits while we were observing these things to notify them, that we were fain to send them both away that I might have liberty to write this  without disturbance Mary Walcot abiding composed & knitting whilest I was writing & the two other sent away, yet by & by whilst I was writing Mary Walcot said there Goody Cloyse has pincht me now

Note.  Mary Walcot never saw Proctor nor his wife till last night coming from the examination at Salem & then she saw Goody Proctor behind her brother Jonathan all the way from the Widow Gidneys to Phillips where Jonathan made a little stay But this day & time I have been writing this she saw them many times.

Note.  Just now as soon as I had made an end of reading this to the Marshall Mary W [Walcott] immediately cryed O yonder is Good: Proctor & his wife & Goody Nurse & Goody Korey & ? Goody Cloyse & Goods Child & then said O Goodm: Proctor is going to choke me & Immediately she was choakt

Munday 11'th mo ditto Lut. Nath: Ingersoll Declares that John Procter tould Joseph Pope that if hee hade John Indian in his Costody hee would soone beat the Devell out of him: and so said to severall others

(Reverse) Village papers concerning Sundry persons Under Suspition of Witchcraft Abigail Williams ag't John procter

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, No. 57, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. Also Essex Institute Collection, no. 18, Peabody Essex Museum, Phillips Library, Rowley, MA.)





(Indictment No. 1 of John Proctor, for Afflicting Mary Wolcott, Returned Ignoramous)

[+ June 30, 1692]

Anno Regis et Reginae Willm: et Mariae nunc. Angliae &c Quarto. Essex ss 

The Jurors for our Sovereigne Lord and Lady the King and Queen psents That: John Procter of Salem Husbandman in the County of Essex: the Eleventh Day of Aprill in the fourth Year of the Reigne of our Sovereigne Lord & Lady, William and Mary by the Grace of God of England Scottland France and Ireland King and Queen Defenders of the faith &c and divers other Dayes and times as well before as after Certaine Detestable Acts, called Witchcraft and Sorceries, Wickedly. and felloniously hath. used: Practised and Exercised at and within the Towneship of Salem in the County of Essex aforesd.  in upon, and ag't one Mary Wolcott of Salem Villiage in the County of Essex Single Woman -- by which said wicked Arts the said: Mary Wolcott the II'th Day of Aprill in the Year abovesaid and Divers other Dayes and times as well before. as after was and is Tortured, Afflicted, Pined, Consumed wasted, and tormented, ag't the Peace of our Sovereigne Lord & Lady the King and Queen, and ag't the form of the Statute in that case made and provided
Witnesses
Mary Wolcot Jurat
Mercy Lewis Jurat
Ann Putman Jurat

(Reverse) No. 1. Jno Procter
Ignoramos Procter & wife

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, No. 46, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Indictment No. 2 of John Proctor, for Afflicting Mercy Lewis)

[+ June 30, 1692]

Anno Regis et Reginae Willm et Mariae nunc Angliae &c Quarto Essex. ss. 

The Jurors for our Sovereigne Lord and Lady the King and Queen pr'sents That John Procter of Salem in the County of Essex, in New England husbandman the II'th Day of Aprill. in the forth Year of the Reigne of our Sovereigne Lord and Lady William & Mary by the Grace of God of England Scottland France & Ireland King and Queen Defenders of the faith &c and Divers other Dayes and times as well before as after certaine Detestable Arts called witchcrafts and Sorceries wickedly and felloniously hath used Practised and Exercised at and within the Towneship of Salem in the County of Essex aforesd. in upon and ag't one Mercey Lewis of Salem Villiage in the County of Essex afores'd Singlewoman -- by which said wicked arts the said Mercy Lewis the 11'th Day of Aprill in the forth Year abovesd and divers other Days and times as well before as after was and is Tortured afflicted Pined: Consumed, wasted and Tormented, and also for sundry other acts of witchcraft by said John Procter Committed and done before and since that time ag't the Peace of our  Sovereigne Lord & Lady the King & Queen, and ag't the form of the Statute in that case made and Provided:

Witnesses
Mercy Lewis ] Sworne
Ann Putman ] Sworne

(Reverse) Jno Procter
No 2 On M: Lewis
bil a vera 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 45. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA.)





(Indictment No. 3 of John Proctor, for Afflicting Mary Warren)

[+ June 30, 1692]

Anno Regis et Reginae Willm et Mariae nunc Angliae &c Quarto Essex. ss. 

The Jurors for our Sovereigne Lord and Lady the King and Queen pr'sents That John Procter of Salem in the County of Essex husbandman the 26'th Day of March in the fourth Year of the Reigne of our Sovereigne Lord & Lady William & Mary by the Grace of God of England Scottland France and Ireland King and Queen Defenders of the faith &c and Divers other Dayes and times as well before as after certaine Detestable Arts called Witchcrafts and Sorceries Wickedly and felloniously hath used, Practised and Excercised at, and within the Township of Salem in the County of Essex afores'd in, Upon & ag't one Mary Warren of Salem in the County of Essex Singlewoman --

by which said wicked arts the said Mary Warren the Twenty Sixth Day of March in the fourth Year abovesaid and Divers other Dayes & times as well before, as after, was and is Tortured, Afflicted, Pined: Consumed, wasted and Tormented, ag't the Peace of our Sovereigne Lord & Lady the King and Queen and agt. the form of the Statute in that case made and Provided
Witnesses Mary Warren Jurat.
Mary Walcott Jurat.

(Reverse)
bil a vera
No. 3. Jno Procter
Ind't up'n M: Wa:

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 No. 44, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Physical Examination of John Proctor and John Willard )

[June 2, 1692 ]

We whose names under written haveing searched the bodyes of John procter sen'r & John Williard now in the Goale & doe not find any thing to farther suspect them  

Dated June 2, 1692
Rondel ap're testis
*John Rogers *J. Barton Chyrg'n
*Joshua Rea Jun'r *Jno Gyles
*John Cooke *William Hine
*Ezekiel Cheever 

(Reverse) Return of Doctor Barton
 & other men that
 Search't Willard &
Procter 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol.1, no. 50, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )









(Petition for John Proctor and Elizabeth Proctor )

[++ August 5, 1692 ]

The Humble, & Sincere Declaration of us, Subscribers, Inhabitants, in Ipswich, on the behalf of o'r Neighb'rs Jno Procter & his wife now in Trouble & und'r Suspition of Witchcraft.

To the Hon'rable Court of Assistants now Sitting In
Boston. --
Hon'red & Right Worshipfull!
The foresd John Procter may have Great Reason to Justifie the Divine Sovereigntie of God under thos Severe Remarques of Providence upon his Peac & Hon'r und'r a due Reflection upon his Life Past: And so the Best of us have Reason to Adoar the Great Pittie & Indulgenc of Gods Providenc, that we are not Exposed to the utmost shame, that the Divell can Invent und'r the p'rmissions of Sovereigntie, tho not for that Sin fore Named; yet for o'r many Transgretions; for we Do at present Suppose that it may be A Method w'thin the Seveerer But Just Transaction of the Infinite Majestie of God: that he some times may p'rmitt Sathan to p'rsonate, Dissemble, & therby abuse Inocents, & such as Do in the fear of God Defie the Devill and all his works. The Great Rage he is p'rmitted to attempt holy Job w'th The Abuse he Does the famous Samuell, in Disquieting his Silent Dust, by Shaddowing his venerable P'rson in Answer to the harmes of WitchCraft, & other Instances from Good hands; may be arg'd Besides the unsearcheable foot stepps of Gods Judgments that are brought to Light Every Morning that Astonish o'r weaker Reasons, To teach us Adoration, Trembling. & Dependanc, &ca but -  

We mmust not Trouble y'r Honr's by Being Tedious, Therefore we being Smitten with the Notice of what hath happened, we Recoon it w'thin the Duties of o'r Charitie, That Teacheth us to do, as we would be done by; to offer thus much for the Clearing of o'r Neighb'rs Inocencie; viz: That we never had the Least Knowledge of such a Nefarious wickedness in o'r said Neighbours, since they have been w'thin our acquaintance; Neither doe we remember -- any such Thoughts in us Concerning them; or any Action by them or either of them Directly tending that way; no more than might be in the lives of any other p'rsons of the Clearest Reputation as to Any such Evills.
What God may have Left them to, we Cannot Go into Gods pavillions Cloathed w'th Cloudes of Darknesse Round About.
But as to what we have ever #[heard] seen, or heard of them -- upon o'r Consciences we Judge them Innocent of the crime objected.
His Breading hath been Amongst us; and was of Religious Parents in o'r place; & by Reason of Relations, & Proprties w'thin o'r Towne hath had Constant Intercourse w'th us
We speak upon o'r p'rsonall acquaintance, & observations: & so Leave our Neighbours, & this our Testimonie on their Behalfe to the wise Thoughts
of y'r Honours, & Subscribe &c.
*Jno Wise
*William Story Sen'r
*Reienallde ffoster
*Thos Chote
*John Burnum sr
*William Thomsonn.
*Tho. Low Sanor
*Isaac Foster
*John Burnum jun'r
*William Goodhew
*John Cogswell
*Thomas Andrews
*Joseph Andrews
*Benjamin marshall
*Isaac perkins
*Nathanill Perkins
*Thomas Lovkine
*William Cogswell
*Thomas Varny
*John fellows
*William Cogswell sen
                                                                   * Jonathan Cogswell
*John Cogswell Jr;
*John Andrews
*Joseph prockter
*Samuell Gidding
*John Andrews Ju'r
*William Butler
*William Andrews
*Joseph Euleth.
*Jems White

(Reverse) Petition in favor of John Proctor & wife

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 No. 60, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Testimony of Joseph Pope )

[April 11, 1692 ] 

Aprill 11 = 1692
Joseph Pope aged forty one years or thereabouts  testefyeth and Saith that on the s'd day this deponent heard John Proctor Say that if mr Parish would let him have his Indian hee the s'd Procter would soone Drive the Divell out of him and farther Saith not.  

(Reverse)  Joseph Popeag't Jno Procter Sen'r 

( Essex Institute Collection, no. 20, Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Rowley, MA. )





(Statement of Samuel Sibley v. John Proctor )

[+ August 5, 1692 ]

The morning after the examination of Goody Nurse.Sam: Sibly met John Proctor about Mr Phillips w'o called to said Sibly as he was going to sd Phillips & askt how the folks did at the village He answered he heard they were very bad last night but he had heard nothing this morning Proctor replyed he was going to fetch home his jade he left her there last night & had rather given 40s than let #[left] her #[hers] come up sd Sibly askt why he talk so Proctor replyed if they were let alone so we should all be Devils & witches quickly they should rather be had to the Whipping post but he would fetch his jade Home & thresh the Devil out of her & more to the like purpose crying hang them, hang them. And also added that when she was first taken with fits he kept her close to the Wheel & threatened to thresh her, & then she had no  more fits till the next day he was gone forth, & then she must have her fits again firsooth &.
                                                              Jurat in Curia                                                         
Procter Ownes he meant Mary Warren
                                    attest. *St. Sewall. Cle  

(Reverse) Sam'l Sibleys Evidence 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 52, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Deposition of Sarah Bibber v. John Proctor )

[June 30, 1692 ]

The Deposition of Sarah Vibber agged about 36 years who testifieth and saith that on the 3 june 1692. Jno: proctor. sen'r came to me and did most greviously torment me by pinching pricking and almost presing me to death urging me to drink: drink as Red as blood which I refusing he did tortor me with variety of tortors and immediatly he vanished away also on the same day I saw Jno: proctor most greviously tortor Susannah Shelden by claping his hands on hir throat and almost choaking hir. also severall times sence Jno: proctor sen'r has most greviously tortored me a grat many times with a variety of tortors

Sarah viber ownid this har testimony to be the truth on har oath before
the Juriars of Inqwest this: 30. of June 1692
                                                Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse)Sarah Vibber 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 56, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Mary Warren v. John Proctor and Elizabeth Proctor )

[? April, 1692 ]

Mary Warrens Confession ag't Jo: Proctor & ux Charges them personally to cause her to signe or make a mark in there book and both of them comitting acts of Witchcraft & being soe & personally threatned the  Exait [torn = examinant] with tortures if she would not #[do it] signe & since conf  [torn =confession]] have oftimes afflicted & tormented her.large in her Confessions vide.

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 55, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Deposition of Elizabeth Hubbard v. John Proctor )

[+ April 11, 1692 ]

The Deposistion of Elizabeth Hubburd agged about 17 years who testifieth and saith that I never saw the Apperishtion of Jno: procktor sen'r before the day of his Examination which was the 11'th April 1692: but sence that the Apperishtion of Jno: procktor sen'r has most greviously afflected me a great many times by pinching pricking and beating me allmost choaking me to death urging me vehemently to writ in his book
                                        mark
                                        O
Eliz. Hubbard
                  Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse)Elizabeth Hubbard ag't
John procter 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 49, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )  





(Deposition of Ann Putnam, Jr. v. John Proctor )

[+ April 11, 1692 ]

The Deposistion of Ann putnam Jun'r who testifieth and saith I have often seen the Apperishtion of Jno procktor senr. amongst the wicthes but he did not doe me much hurt tell a little before his examination which was on the 11th of April 1692 and then he sett upon me most grevi#[vi] ously and did tortor me most dreadfully also in the time of his examination he afflected me very much: and severall times sence the Apperishtion of John procktor senr, has most greviously tortored me by pinching and allmost choaking me urging me vehemently to writ in his book
also on the day of his Examination I saw the Apperishtion of Jno: proctor senr goe and afflect and most greviously tortor the bodys of Mistris pope mary walcott Mircy lewes. Abigail williams and Jno: Indian. and he and his wife and Sarah Cloys keept Elizabeth Hubburd speachless all the time of their examination

mark Ann putnam Ann Putman owned what is above written upon oath before and unto the Grand inquest on the 30'th Day of June 1692 

(Reverse) Ann puttnam ag't
John procter 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 53, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Deposition of Samuel Parris , Nathaniel Ingersoll , & Thomas Putnam v. John Proctor , Elizabeth Proctor , & Sarah Cloyce )

[+ April 11, 1692 ]

The deposition of Sam: Parris aged about. 39. years and Nathanael Ingersoll aged about fifty & eight years & also Thomas Putman aged about fourty years all of Salem --
testifieth & saith that divers of the afflicted by Witchcraft were much tortured at the examination of John Proctor of Salem Farmes before the honoured Magistrates the 11'th April. 1692 . & particularly when Mr Joseph Popes wife was severall times afflicted, Ann Putman jun'r & Abigail Williams testified that it was by John Proctor aforesaid & his wife Elizabeth , & also when Mercy Lewes was much afflicted at the same examination said Ann witnessed that it was by said Proctor & his wife & Goody Cloyse , also when Goody Bibber was much afflicted, Abig: Williams just before cryed out there is Goodman Proctor going to hurt Goody Bibber, & also said Abigail cryed out there is Goodman Proctor going to hurt Mary Walcot , & imediately Mary Walcot was seized with a violent fit

(Reverse) The Depotion of Sam: Parris &c ags't
John Proctor

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 47, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Deposition Mary Warren v. John Proctor)

[June 30, 1692]

The deposition of mary warrin aged 20 y'rs ho testifieth I have seen the apparition of John procter sen'r among the wiches and he hath often tortored me by penching me and biting me and Choakeing me and presing me one my Stomack tell the blood Came out of my mouth. and allso I saw him tortor Mes poapand marcey lues and John Indian apon the day of his examination and he hath allso temted me to right in his book and to eat bread which he brought to me which I Refuseing to doe: Jno proctor did most greviously tortor me with variety of torturs all most Redy to kill me.

Mary Warren owned the above written upon
her oath before & unto the Grand inquest on the 30'th Day of June 1692

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol.1, p. 59, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Deposition of Elizabeth Booth v. John Proctor )

[+ April 11, 1692]

The deposistion of Eliz: Booth agge 18 years who testifieth and saith that sence I have ben afflected I have been most greviously tormented by my neighbor John proctor senr or his appearance also I have seen John proctor senr. or his Apperance most greviously torment and afflect mary walcott mercy lewes and ann putnam junr. by pinching twisting and almost Choaking them
                                                                      Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) El. Booth
John Proctor 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 51, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Deposition of Thomas Putnam & John Putnam, Jr. v. John Proctor )

[+ April 11, 1692]

The Deposistion of Thomas putnam agged 40 years and Jno. putnam aged 36 years who testifieth and saith that we haveing ben conversant with divrs of the afflected parsons as mary walcott mercy lewes Abigail williams and Ann putnam andElizabeth Hubbert, and have seen them most greviously tormented and often complaining of John proctor, for hurting them also on the 11'th of April 1692 being the day of John proctors Examination the affore named parsons ware much #[af] afflected #[me] dureing the time of his Examination: also severall times sence we have seen the affore said parsons most dreadfully afflected and complaining of John proctor for hurting them and we  veryly beleve that John proctor the prisoner att the barr has many times afflected and tormented the affore said parsons by acts of witchcraft
*Thomas putnam.
*Jon Putnam.
                                                         Jurat in Curia.  

(Reverse) Thomas Putman
Jon Putman
John Proctor 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 48, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Testimony of Abigail Williams v. John Proctor )

[May 31, 1692]

The Testimony of Abigail Williams + witnesseth & saith that divers times in the month of April last past & particularly on the.4.6. eleven &.13. dayes of the same month, she the said Abigail hath been much vexed with the apparition of John Proctor Senior of Salem Husbandman, by which apparition she the said Abigail hath been often pinch't & otherwise tortured.

May 31. 1692. Attested before

(Reverse) Abig: Williams ags't John Proctor Sen'r

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 54, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Deposition of Mary Walcott & Elizabeth Hubbard v. John Proctor , Elizabeth Proctor Benjamin procter,, & Sarah Proctor; Testimony of James Holton v. John Procter & Elizabeth Procter)

[+ August 10, 1692]

The deposion of Mary Walcutt and Elizabeth Hubbard, s'd that on the 29 of May 1692 we came to see James holten, how lay grevesely tormented and we then saw John prockter and his Wife his son beni procter,Sarah procter #[Wiluam procter,] and all of them a presing #[them] of him w'h there hands one his stomack and tormenting of him most grevesely and then quckly after they fell upon us and afflected us most Dredfully for a considerable time
                                                                          Jurat in Curia by
                                                                                      both 

James holten testifieth. and sd that as soon as mary Walcutt andelizebeth hubard was afflected that at that same time I had ease of my pains
                                                                              Jurat in Curia 

(Reverse) Mary Walcott &
Elizabeth ags't
Jno proctor & wife &c
James Holten

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 58, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )

(Petition of John Proctor from Prison)

[July 23, 1692 ]

Salem-Prison,

July 23, 1692. 

Mr. Mather, Mr. Allen , Mr. Moody , Mr. Willard, and Mr. Bailey.

Reverend Gentlemen.

The innocency of our Case with the Enmity of our Accusers and our Judges, and Jury, whom nothing but our Innocent Blood will serve their turn, having Condemned us already before our Tryals, being so much incensed and engaged against us by the Devil, makes us bold to Beg and Implore your Favourable Assistance of this our Humble Petition to his Excellency, That if it be possible our Innocent Blood may be spared, which undoubtedly otherwise will be shed, if the Lord doth not mercifully step in. The Magistrates, Ministers, Jewries, and all the People in general, being so much inraged and incensed against us by the Delusion of the Devil, which we can term no other, by reason we know in our own Consciences, we are all Innocent Persons. Here are five Persons who have lately confessed themselves to be Witches, and do accuse some of us, of being along with them at a Sacrament, since we were committed into close Prison, which we know to be Lies. Two of the 5 are (Carriers Sons) Youngmen, who would not confess any thing till they tyed them Neck and Heels till the Blood was ready to come out of their Noses, and 'tis credibly believed and reported this was the occasion of making them confess that they never did, by reason they said one had been a  Witch a Month, and another five Weeks, and that their Mother had made them so, who has been confined here this nine Weeks. My son William Procter , when he was examin'd, because he would not confess that he was Guilty, when he was Innocent, they tyed him Neck and Heels till the Blood gushed out at his Nose, and would have kept him so 24 Hours, if one more Merciful than the rest, had not taken pity on him, and caused him to be unbound. These actions are very like the Popish Cruelties. They have already undone us in our Estates, and that will not serve their turns, without our Innocent Bloods. If it cannot be granted that we can have our Trials at Boston, we humbly beg that you would endeavour to have these Magistrates changed, and others in their rooms, begging also and beseeching you would be pleased to be here, if not all, some of you at our Trials, hoping thereby you may be the means of saving the sheeding our Innocent Bloods, desiring your Prayers to the Lord in our behalf, we rest your Poor Afflicted Servants,
John Procter , &c. 

( Robert Calef , More Wonders of The Invisible World [ London, 1700 ], excerpted in Burr, ed. , Narratives of the Witchcraft Cases, pp. 362-364 .)