SWP No. 119: Margaret Scott Executed, September 22, 1692





( Deposition of Frances Wycom v. Margaret Scott )

[September 15, 1692]

The deposistion of frances wycum who testifieth and saith that quickly after the first court at Salme about wicthcraft margerit Scott whom I very well knew: or hir Apperance came to me and did most greviously torment me by choaking and almost presing me to death: and so she did continu affleting me by times tell the 5'th August 1692 being the day of hir examination allso during the time of hir Examination margerit Scott did most greviously  afflect me: and also severall times sence: and I beleve in my heart that margerit Scott is a wicth and that she has often affleted me by acts of wicthcraft
ffrances Wycom owned: to the grand Inquest. that the above written evidence: is the truth upon oath: Sept'r 15, 1692:                       Jurat in Curia.

(Reverse) frances Wycomb dep'o
Ags't #(M)Margaret Scott

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft vol. 2, no. 94, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA.  )



( Testimony of Phillip Nelson and Sarah Nelson v. Margaret Scott )

[September 15, 1692]

also phillip Nelson and Sarah his wife doe testifie and say that for Two or three years before #(the said) Robert Shilleto dyed we have often hard him complaining of margerit Scott for hurting of him and often said that she was a wicth and so he continewed complaining of margerit Scott saying he should never be well so long as margerit Scott lived & so he Complayned of Margret Scott: att times untill he dyed

Phillip Nelson: and Sarah his wife affirmed: upon their oath: to the grand Inquest that: the above written evidence: is the truth:
Sept'r 15: 1692                              Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) Sarah Nelson dep'o
agst Mary Scott 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 95, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )

(Indictment of Margaret Scott, for Afflicting Frances Wycomb)

[+ September 15, 1692]

Indicm't ag'st Margaret Scott, for bewitching Frances Wijcomb.

Essex in the ProvinceAnno RR's & Reginae Gulielmiof the Massachusetts& Mariae &ca Quarto An-Bay in New Engl'dnoq; Domi 1692. ss.

The Jurors for our Sov'e Lord and Lady the King and Queen doe Present That Margarett Scott, of Rowley, In the County of Essex, Widdow: Upon the fifth day of August In the yeare aforesaid and divers other days and times as well before as after Certaine detesta- ble Arts Called Witchcraft and Sorceries Wickedly Mallitiously and felloniously hath used practised and Exercised At and in the towne of Salem in the County aforesaid in upon and against one Frances Wijcomb, of Rowley, aforesaid Single Woman by which s'd Wicked Acts the said Frances Wijcomb, the day and yea'e aforesaid and divers  other days and times both before and after was and is Tortured Afflicted Consumed Pined Wasted and Tor- mented, and also for sundry other Acts of Witchcraft by the said Margaret Scott, Committed and done before and since that time against the Peace of our Sov'e Lord and Lady the King and Queen their Crowne and Dignity and the forme of the Stattute In that case made and Provided.
Billa Vera.  Ponet Se.

(Thomas Gage, The History of Rowley. (Boston: Ferdinand Andres, 1840) 169-170.  

(Indictment of Margaret Scott, for Afflicting Mary Daniell)

[+ September 15, 1692]

Essex in the ProvinceAnno RR's & Reginae Guliel-of the Massachusettsmi & Mariae AngliaeBay in New England&ca Quarto Annoq; Domini 1692 ss//. Ss//

The Juriors for our Sov'e Lord and Lady the King and Queen #(theire Crowne) doe present That Margarett Scott of Rowley In the County of Essex #(Single) widow #(woman) About the latter end of July or the begining of August In the yeare aforesaid and divers other days and times as well before as after Certaine detestable Arts called Witchcraft and Sorceries Wickedly Mallitiously and felloniously hath used practised and Exercised At and in the Towne of Rowley in the County of Essex Aforesaid in upon and against one Mary Daniell of Rowley Aforesaid single Woman by which said Wicked Acts the said Mary Daniell the day & yeare Aforesaid and divers other days and times both before and after was and is Tortured Afflicted Consumed Pined Wasted and Tormented and also for Sundry other Acts of Witchcraft by the said Marg#(y)r't Scott Comitted and done before and Since that time against the Peace of our Sov'e Lord & Lady the King and Queen theire Crowne and Dignity and the forme of the Stattute in that case made and Provided.

Indictm't agst. Margarett Scott: for bewitching Mary Daniell
Billa Vera
Ponet se.

(Thomas Gage, The History of Rowley. (Boston: Ferdinand Andres, 1840) 170-171. 

(Deposition of Mary Daniel Vs. Margaret Scott & Elizabeth Jackson)

[August 4, 1692]

The Deposition of Mary Daniel aged nineteen yeers or there ab'ts s'd Deponent testifyeth that upon the 2'd day of the #(last) week last past, towards night, I was suddenly taken very ill and went to lye down on a bed, soon after which, there appeared to me the shape of some woman, who seemed to look and speak most feircly & angrily, and beat; pinch'd & afflicted me very sorely telling me I should not have said so, or told such things & to that purpose; I cannot positively say whose shape it was that I saw the first fitt. the next night after, I was taken very ill again all over & felt a great pricking in the soles of my feet, and after a while I saw apparently the shape of #(widow) margret Scott, who, as I was sitting in a chair by the fire pulled me with the chair, down backward to the ground, and tormented and pinch'd me very much, and I saw her go away at the door, in which fit I was dumb and so continued till the next morning, finding a great load and heaviness upon my tongue. In some of the fitts that I had afterwards, I was sensless and knew not that I saw who it was that afflicted me. In one fitt (upon the beginning it) I thought I saw goodw Jackson and widow Scott come waking into the chamber with y'r staves, one of them came and sat upon me so that I could not stirr; Goodw Jackson I saw no more, nor know I that she did me any harm. In another fitt I saw the appearance of s'd Scott in the room who afflicted me, and being speechless, I continued so, untill I went to the s'd Scott, who taking me by the hand, I had the liberty of speech again as formerly. The last fitt I had was upon the last Sabb'th day, in which I saw the shapes of four women or five, of whom widow Scott was one, the rest I knew not, nor knew that any did hurt me, unless s'd widow Scott. 

Rowley August 4, 1692  

Mary Daniell owned: the truth of the above written evidence #(upon as) to the Jury of Inquest Sept'r 15: 1692.

M'r Edward Paison Made Oath that Mary Daniil did declare as above is written. attest, St: Sewall Cler in Court at Salem Sep'r 16. 92

(Reverse) Mary Daniell dep'o Agst Mary Scott
   (Thomas Gage. The History of Rowley. (Boston: Ferdinand Andres, 1840) 172-173.  

(Testimony of John Burbank and Daniel Wycomb Vs. Margaret Scott)

[September 15, 1692]

Jno Burbanke De'po ag'st Margret Scott. Daniel Wycomb

the testymony of Daniell Wicom ayged above fifty years Who sayth that abought five ore sixs years a go Margret Scot of Rowlah came to my hous and asked me if she might gleane corne in my felld i towld hir she might if she woulld stay whilst my corne was ought of the feeld s'd Scot s'd you will not get youer corne ought to night it may be i tould hir i would s'd Scot s'd may be not: at that,  time my wife gave s'd Scot sum corne and then Scot went a way and presently after s'd Scot was gon i went  with my cart and oxsen into the feeld for corne and when i had lodid my cart i went to go home with my corne but the oxsen would not draw the cart any ways bout from home thof i wear not twenty Rod from my Door and i coulld not get any corne ought of my felld that day the next Day i touck the same oxsen and put them to the cart and the s'd cart and the same lode of corne they did draw a way with ease. 

Jurat in Curia.

Capt. Dan'll Wycom owned: the above written evi- dence to: be the truth before grand Inquest upon his oath Jno: Burbank and Frances Wycom, attested: to: sub- stance of this above written: evidence:: as: that: s'd Scott s'd: it may be you will not gett: yor corn in to night therefore let me glean to night: and that ye oxen would not goe forward: but backward with the load of corn: nor: the corn: could: none of it be gott in that night: be- fore: s'd Inquest: Sept'r: 15: 1692. 

Sworne in Court also by John Burbanke.

(Thomas Gage, The History of Rowley. (Boston: Ferdinand Andres, 1840) 171-172. 

(Statements  of Mary Warren,Elizbeth Hubbard, & Ann Putnam Jr  [v. Margaret Scott)

[September 15, 1692]

Mary Waren: and Eliz. Hubbert both: Affirmed upon their oaths: that: they saw: Margret Scott: afflict Mary Daniell: of Rowley: before the grand Inquest this they owned to: the grand Inquest Sept'r: 15: 1692. Mary Warin s'd: s'd Scott hurt: her s'd Warin also: before: the grand Inquest. Eliz. Hubbert sayd that Margret Scott: afflicted her: before the grand Inquest: Sept'r: the: 15: 1692.
                                                                            Jurat in Curia.

An: Putnam: and Mary Warin affirmed to the grand Inquest: that: they saw Margret: Scott: afflict: Fran- ces Wycom: in presence of the grand Inquest: Sept'r: 15: 1692 upon their othes also that s'd Scott: afflicted: s'd Frances Wycom: before in Salem.
                                            Jurat in Curia by Ma. Warrin.

(Thomas Gage, The History of Rowley. (Boston: Ferdinand Andres, 1840) 173-174. 

(Deposition of Thomas Nelson Vs. Margaret Scott)

[September 15, 1692]

The Deposition of Thomas Nelson, who saith, that, about six yeares ago the last winter, Margaret Scot, of Rowley, widow, desired me to bring her some wood, and spake to me severall times for wood, and I told her, that I owed her ten shillings and I would bring her wood for it, and she was not willing to set of that. Earnest she was for me to bring her wood: denied her; soon after this one of my cattell was dead in the stantiall, and stood up on his hind feet, and kneeled on his knees afore, and little after this another of my cattell was ded in the yard, his neck under a plank at the barn side as if he were chok'd; and after this, and ever since, had hard thoughts of this woman and my neighbours told me, something more then ordinery that my cattell died so. And I do verily believe that she is a witch. Tho: Nelson, one of the Grand Inquest gave in this Evidence to the grant Inquest, September 15, 1692.
                                                                                            Jurat in Curia.

(Thomas Gage, The History of Rowley. (Boston: Ferdinand Andres, 1840), p. 174. 

(Deposition of Sarah Coleman Vs. Margaret Scott)

[September 15, 1692]

The Deposition of Sarah Coalman, who saith, about the fivetenth of August last past that she was tormented three or four times by Marget Scot, of Rowly, or her appearance, by pricking, pinching, and choaking of me, and I do verily believe that she is a witch. Sarah Coleman affirmed before te Grand Inquest, that the above written Evidence is truth, uppon her oath 15th September, 1692.

( Thomas Gage, The History of Rowley. (Boston: Ferdinand Andres, 1840) 174-175. 