SWP No. 062: Dorothy Good

(See also: Martha Corey -- Mittimus.)





(Warrant for the Apprehension of Dorothy Good )

[March 23,1692] 

To The Marshall of Essex or his Dep't.
You are in theire Majests names hereby required to bring before us Dorcas Good the Daugter of W'm Good of Salem Village tomorrow morneing upon suspition of acts of Witchcraft by her committed according to Complaints made against her by Edw'd Putnam & Jonat putnam of Salem Village.and hereof faile not Dated Salem. March 23d. 1691/2

P'r us *John Hathorne ] Assists.
*Jonathan. Corwin ] Assists.

March 23d. 1691/2.
I doe apoint mr Sam'll Bradbrook to bee my lawffull Deputy, to serve
this summons and to make A true Returne per *George Herrick
Marshall of Essex.

(Reverse) March 24. 1691/2 I have taken the body of Dorcas Good and
brought her to the house of leut Nath: Ingersol and is in Costody #[there]
*Sammuall brabrook Marshall's Deputy. 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 61, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts Statte Archive, MA. )

Examination of Dorothy Good, as Told by Deodat Lawson)

[March 24,1692]

The Magistrates and Ministers also did informe me, that they apprehended a child of Sarah G. and Examined it, being between 4 and 5 years of Age And as to matter of Fact, they did Unanimously affirm, that when this Child, did but cast its eye upon the afflicted persons, they were tormented, and they held her Head, and yet so many as her eye could fix upon were afflicted. Which they did several times make careful observation of: the afflicted complained, they had often been Bitten by this child, and produced the marks of a small set of teeth, accordingly, this was also committed to Salem Prison; the child looked hail, and well as other Children. I saw it at Lievt. Ingersols After the commitment of Goodw. N. Tho: Putmans wife was much better, and had no violent fits at all from that 24th of March to the 5th of April. Some others also said they had not seen her so frequently appear to them, to hurt them.

( Deodat Lawson. A Brief and True Narrative of Some Remarkable Passages Relating to Sundry Persons Afflicted by Witchcraft, at Salem Village Which happened from the Nineteenth of March to the Fifth of April 1692. Boston: Benjamin Harris, 1692, p. 9.)





(Mercy Lewis v. Dorothy Good )

[+ March 24, 1692]

The Deposistion of Mercy lewes aged about 19 years who testifieth and saith that on the 3d April 1692 the Apperishtion of Dorrithy good Sarah goods daughter came to me and did afflect me urging me to writ in hir book and seuerall times sence Dorithy good hath afflected me by biting pinching and choaking me urging me to writ in hir book.

(Reverse) Mercy Lewis against
Dorothy. Good .

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 62. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts Statte Archive, MA. )





(Mary Walcott v. Dorothy Good )

[+ March 24,1692]

The deposition of mary walcott agged about 17 years who testifieth that about the 21: march 1691/92 I saw the Apperishtion of Dorothy good sarah goods daughter com to me and bit me and pinch me and so she contineued afflecting me by times tell 24 march being the day of hir examination and then she did torment and afflect me most greviously dureing the time of hir examination and also severall times sence the Apperishtion of Dorothy good has afflected me by biting pinching and almost choaking me urging me to writ in hir book.

(Reverse) Mary Walcott agst
Dorothy. Good --  

Dorothy good

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 64, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts Statte Archive, MA. )





(Ann Putnam, Jr. v. Dorothy Good )

[+ March 24,1692]

The Deposistion of Ann putnam  who testifieth and saith that on the 3th March 1691/92 I saw the Apperishtion of Dorythy good Sarah good's daughter who did immediatly almost choak me and tortored me most greviously: and so she hath severall times sence tortored me by biting and pinching and almost choaking me tempting me also to writ in hir book and also on the day of hir examination being the 24 March 1691/92 the Apperishtion of Dorithy good  ly totor me dureing the time of hir Examination and severall times sence.

(Reverse) Ann puttnam ag't
Dorothy Good

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 63, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts Statte Archive, MA. )



(Recognizance for Dorothy Good )

[December 10, 1692]

Memorandum 

That on the Tenth day of December 1692 Samuel Ray of Salem. appeared before me Underwritten One of the Councill for their Maj:tis Province of the Massachusets Bay in New England and acknowledged himselfe Indebted unto Our Soveraign Lord & Lady the king & Queen the Sume of fifty pounds Currant Money of New: England on the Condition hereafter Named --

Vid't: That Dorothy Good Daughter of William Good of Salem Labourer being Imprisoned on Suspicion of her being Guilty of the Crime of Witchcraft & being Now Let to Bail. that if the Said Dorothy Good Shall appear at the Next assize & Gener'll Goal Delivery to be holden at Salem & abide the Courts Judgment then the above Recognisance to be void Else to remain in force & vertue 

(Reverse) Recog'ce not copied 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 185, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts Statte Archive, MA. )