SWP No. 114: Wilmott Reed Executed, September 22, 1692

(See also: Martha Carrier -- Complaint .)





(Warrant for the apprehension of Wilmott Redd, & Officer's Return )

[May 28, 1692]

To the Constables  of Marblehead
You are in theire Majest's names hereby required to apprehend and bring before Us willmut Reed the wife of Samuell Reed of Marblehead, on Tuesday next being the 31 day of this Instant moneth of May aboute ten of the Clock in the forenoon at the house of L't Nathan'l Ingerslls in Salem Village; who Stands Charged wi[th] having Committed Sundry acts of Witchcraft on the bodys of Mary Walcot and Marcy Lewis and Other[s] of Salem Village to theire great hurt &c, in order to her Examination Relateing to the aboves'd premises and hereof you are not to faile Dated Salem  May 28'th 1692
                            Per us *John Hathorne ] Assis'ts
*Jonathan. Corwin ] Assis'ts 

(Reverse) In answer to the withinmentioned warrant I have apprehended Willmot Reed Wife to Sam'll Reed of Marblehead & brought her to the house of L't Ingersals ,
May the 31'th 92  *James Smith Con'st
                        for Marblehead 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 6, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Indictment of Wilmott Redd , for Afflicting Elizabeth Booth )

[+ September 14, 1692]

Essex in the Province of the Massachusetts Bay in New England Ss//]
Anno RR's & Reginae Gulielmi & Mariae Angliae &ca Annoq'e Domini 1692 

The Juriors for our Sov'r Lord and Lady the King & Queen doe present That Willmott Redd Wife of Samuel Redd of Marblehead In the County of Essex fisherman upon the Thirty first day of May In the Yeare afores'd and divers other days and times as well before as after Certaine detestable Arts called Witchcraft and Sorceries Wickedly Mallitiously and felloniously hath used practised and exercised At and in the Towne of Salem in the County of Essex-Aforesaid in upon and against one Eliza' Booth of Salem Aforesaid Single Woman ---- by which said Wicked Acts the said #Wilmott Redd] Elizabeth Booth The day & yeare afore said and divers other days and times both before and after was and is Tortured Aflicted Consumed Pined Wasted and Tormented and also for Sundry other Acts of Witchcraft by the said Willmott Redd Comitted and done before and Since that time against the peace of our Sov'r Lord & Lady the King & Queen theire Crown and Dignity and the forme Of the Stattute in that case made and Provided.

(Reverse) Indictm't Vs Willmott Redd for:bewitching Eliza' Booth Ignoramus

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 5, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Indictment of Wilmott Redd , for Afflicting Elizabeth Hubbard )

[+ September 14, 1692]

Essex in the province of the Massachusetts Bay in New England ss ]
Anno RR's & Reginae Gulielmi & Mariae Angliae, &c Quarto Annoq'e Domini 1692. 

The Juriors for our Sov'r Lord and Lady the King & Queen doe present that Willmott Redd wife of Samuel Redd of Marblehead In the County of Essex fisherman upon the Thirty first day of May In the year aforesaid and divers other days and times as well before as after Certaine Detestable Arts. called Witchcraft and Sorceries Wickedly Mallitiously and felloniously hath used practised and Exercised at  and in the Towne of Salem in the County of Essex aforesaid in Upon and against one Eliz'a Hobert of Salem aforsaid in the County of Essex aforesaid Single Woman by which said wicked Acts the said Eliz'a Hobert the day & yeare aforesaid and Divers other dayes and times both before and after was and is Tortured aflicted Consumed Pined Wasted and Tormented and also for Sundry other Acts of Witchcraft by the said Willmot Redd Comitted and done before and Since that time against the peace of o'r Soveraigne Lord and Lady the King and Queen theire Crowne and Dignity And the forme Of #(in) the Stattute in that Case made and Provided. --

(Reverse) Indictm't agst Willmott Redd for bewitching Eliz'a Hobert Billa vera-

Ponet se

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 9,Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Examination of Wilmott Redd )

[May 31, 1692]

The examination of Wilmot Redd. Wife of Samll Red of marblehed fisherman. 31. May. 1692
When this Examinant was brought in Mercy Lewes Mary Walcot & Abigail Williams fell into fits
Mercy Lewes said this Woman hath Pincht me a great many times. Mary Walcot sais this Woman brought the Book to her.
Ann Putman jun'r saith she never hurt her, but #(she hath seen) she hath seen her once upen Mercy Lewes & once upon Mary Walcot the last fast day.
Eliz: Hubbard said this Examinant had brought the book to her, & told her she would knock her in the head, if she would not write.
Ann Putman said she brought the Book to her just now
Eliz: Booth fell into a fit, & Mary Walcot & Ann Putman said it was this Woman afflicted her.
Susan: Sheldon was ordered to goe to the Examinant but was knock down before she came to her, & being so carryed to said Redd in a fit, was made well after said Redd had graspt her arm.
Eliz: Hubbard dealt with after the same manner
This Examinant was bid by the Magistrates to Look upon Eliz: Hubbard, & upon the examinants casting her eye upon said Hubbard, she the said Hubbard was knockt down.
Abig: Williams & John Indian being carried to the Examinant in a grevious fit were made Well by her grasping their arms.

This examinant being often urged what she thought these Persons ailed; would reply, I cannot tell. Then being askt if she did not think they were Bewitcht: she answered I cannot tell And being urged for her opinion in the case All she would say was: my opinion is they are in a sad condition.

(Reverse) Willmott Redd Examination
Examination of Willmott Redd

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Vol. 2, no. 8, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Summons for Witnesses v. Wilmot Redd, and Officer's Return )

[September 13, 1692]

Essex ss. W'm & Mary by the Grace of God. of England Scotland france & Ireland King & Queen defend'rs of the faith &c'a
To the Sheriff of Essex Or deputy or Constable of Marblhead 

Greeting
Wee Comand you to Warne & give Notice unto the wife & daughter of Thomas Dodd the Wife & daughter of Thomas Ellis John Caley David Shapley Wife & daughter John Chinn. Marthah Beale, Elias Henly jun'r & wiffe. Benjamin Gale, Joane Bubbee, Charity Pittman, & Jacob Wormwood, That they & Every of them be and personaly appear at the Court of Oyer and Terminer holden at Salem to morrow at Eight of the Clock in the Morning #(to morrow) there to Testify the Truth to the best of your knowledge on Severall Indictments Exhibited against Wilmot Redd hereof Make return fail not dated in Salem Sep'r 13'th 1692. & in the fourth yeare of Our Reign:
*Stephen Sewall Cle 

(Reverse) Wilmot Redd 

I have warn & sumonsed all the
persons withinmentiond accordingly except
John Calley & Ellis henly
who are at sea, & beni. gale not well
Sept'ber the 14'th by 7 aclock in
the morning Per mee *James Smith
Cons't in Marblehead

(Reverse) Wilmot Redd/

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 7, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Deposition of Mary Walcott v. Wilmott Redd )

[+ September 14, 1692]

The deposistion of mary walcott who testifieth and saith I was for a considerable time afflectid by a woman which tould me hir name was Redd: and that she came from marblehead but on the 31: may 1692 being the day of the Examination of willmott Redd then I saw that she was the very same woman that tould me hir name was Redd: and she did most dreadfully afflect and tormet me dureing the time of hir Examination. for if she did but look upon me she would strick me down or almost choak me: also on the day of hir Examination I saw willmott Redd: or hir Ap#(Eliz: Booth) Ann putnam and I beleve in my heart that willmott Redd is a wicth and that she has often affleted and tormented me & the aforesad persons by acts of wicthcraft.
Jurat in Curia  

Mary: Walcot: upon her oath: Affirmd to the grand Inquest that the above written evidence is the truth:Sep'r 14: 1692 

(Reverse) Mary Walcott Evidence
against Willmott Redd 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 11, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )



(Deposition of Mary Warren v. Wilmott Redd )

[+ September 14, 1692]

The deposistion of mary warren who testifieth and saith that I cannot say that #(our I canot say that) willmott Redd evr hurt me but I saw willmott Redd on the 31 may 1692 most: greviously afflect and torment mary walcott Abigaill williams and Eliz: Booth & elizabeth Hubbard and Ann putnam and I verily beleve in my heart that wilmott Redd is a wicth & that she has often hurt the above said parsons by accts of wicthcraft

Mary: Warin upon oath: affirmed to the grand Inquest: to the truth of the above written evidence: Sept'r 14'th 1692
& this day, she hath aflicted this deponant most Greviously

(Reverse) Mary Warren dep'o agst
Willmot Redd 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 10, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





( Deposition of Ann Putnam, Jr. v. Wilmott Redd )

[+ September 14, 1692]

The deposition of Ann Putnam who testifieth and saith that I was for a considerable time afflectid by a woman that tould me hir name was Redd and that she came from marblehead but on the 31 May 1692 being the day of the Examination of wilmott Redd then I saw that she was the very same woman that tould me hir name was Redd and she did most greviously torment me dureing the time of hir Examination for if she did but look on me she would strick me down or almost choak me: also on the day of hir examination I saw willmott Redd or hir Apperance most greviously afflet and torment mary walcott Eliz: Hubburd Eliz: Booth and Abigail williams: and I very beleve that willmott Redd is a wicth and that she has often affletid me and the afforesaid persons by acts of wicthcraft

An Putnum ownd the truth of the above written evidence: to the grand Inquest:
Sept'r: 14: 1692 upon oath
                                                                Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) An Puttnam
Evidence Against Willmott Redd 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 13, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





Deposition of (Elizabeth Hubbard v. Wilmott Redd )

[+ September 14, 1692]

The deposistion of Eliz: Hubburd who testifieth and saith that I was a considerable time afflected by a woman w'ch tould me hir name was Redd: and that she came from marblehead; but on the 31 may 1692 being the day of the Examination of willmott Redd then I saw that she was the very same woman that tould me hir name was Redd:and she did most greviously afflect and torment me dureing the time of her Examination for if she did but look upon me she would strick me down or almost choake me: also on the day of hir examination I saw willmott Redd or hir Apperance most dreadfully afflect and torment mary walcott Abigail Williams #(Eliz: Booth) and Ann putnam and I beleve that willmott Redd is wicth and that she hath often affleted me and the affore said parsons by acts of wicthcraft

Eliz Hubbert: upon her oath: to the grand Inquest:
to the truth of the above written: evidence:; Sep'r 14: 1692
                                                                               Jurat in Curia

(Reverse) Eliz'a Hobert depo
Agst.: Willmott Redd

( Essex County Archives Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 12, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





( Testimony of Charity Pitman v. Wilmott Redd )

[+ September 14, 1692]

The Testimony of Charity Pitman of Marblehead.

This deponent aged twenty nine years affirms, that about five years agoe, M'rs Syms of the Towne having lost some linnen which she suspected Martha Laurence the girle which then lived with Wilmott Redd had taken up, desired the deponent to goe with her to Wilmott Redds , and demanding the same, having many words about the same, M'rs Syms told her, that if she would not deliver them she would go to Salem to mr Hathorne, and gett a speciall warrant for her servant girle; upon which the s'd Redd told her in my hearing, that she wished that she might never mingere [urinate], nor cacare [defecate], if she did not goe, and some short time after the deponent observed that the s'd M'rs Syms was taken with the distemper of the dry Belly=ake, and so continued many moneths during her stay in the Towne, and was not cured whilst she tarryed in the Countrey, -
                                                                        Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) Charity Pittman
agst Willmott Redd 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 14, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





# (Statements of  Sarah Dodd & Ambrose Gale v. Wilmott Redd)

[September 14, 1692]

Sarah Dod: Affirmed: upon her oath to the grand Inquest: that: she heard: M'rs Simse threatned to have Wilmot Redd: before a Majestrate. for some of s'd Redds misdemeanures. s'd Redd. wisht s'd Simse might never any wayes ease nature before she did it: & soon after; to this deponan'ts knowledge it fell out with: M'rs Simse: according s'd Redds wish this she ownd before: s'd Jury of inquest: Sept'r 14: 1692

Mr Ambrose Gale: Affirmed that: M'rs Simse was: abo't that time [or soon after]: so afficted as was then Reported & #[upon that]:  Septem'br 14: 1692

(Reverse) Sarah Dodd evidence
agst  Willmott Redd

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 15, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )