SWP No. 034: Sarah Cole (of Lynn)

(See also: Lydia Dustin -- Mittimus)





(Complaint of Mary Brown v. Sarah Cole of (Lynn) )

[October 1, 1692]

The Complaint Mary Browne of Reding Evidence against Sarah Cole wife of John Cole of Lyn: Cooper // Complaineth folowth -- 

That the aboves'd Sarah Colle bodyly Appeared to mee and that In  her full shapp and person: both night and day: and hath threatened  me. sorely what Shee would do to me: hath come to my bedd Sid  [] & feel much Disturbing of me & puting me to grat paine both strang and Unwonted Such pains as In all my Illness past have not  met w'th such pains: // and I must say I do think the s'd Sarah Colle  (Is by gods purmition) Is the Cauess of this my Illness and that By  acts of witchcraftes done & acted on my body & mind: This hath  been all maner and Custome for the most part of the later part of  september past: but I got some frinds to goe to speek to hur about  a week past: & since that time I have not seen her but Remaine  under the lik Illness as before and beleive that she Is acting her part to the [the] rouning of my family: as farr as god doth give Sow//  my self and children have often heard lik the throwing of stone against the house and creatures crying like catts upon the Roffe of  the house but where running there, was like dogs or bigger creatures  for the [end of] the Ross Creke.
Reding
The 1st of
October 1692
*Mary Browne 

These mey Certify that I Mary Browne with In named hev Desiered Good man Benjemien Larrobe to Carey this my Compliant to Authority// hoo will act according to their wisdom for my Relief://  My son being Ille At this time// and my selfe apoor and afflicted  person &c

Reading
the 1st of October
1692                                          *Mary Browne 

Benja Larobe Enters the within Complaint w'th their Majesties Justices of Salem in behalfe of the said Mary Browne of Reding widow
3: October 1692                 The Mark
                                    O of
Benja' Larobe:

Benja' Larobe. of Lin in the County of Essex obligeth him selfe to our Soveraines Wm & Mary King & Queen of Engld & in the full  & whole Sum of one hundred pounds Currant mony of New England.  The Condition is that wheras the Said Larobe hath Entred a Complaint w'th their Maj's Justices of the Peace at Salem in Behalf of  Mary Browne of Reding widow against Sarah Coale wife of John Coale of Lin for that she hath Sorly hurt the said Mary Browne by witch craft, &c: that he the Said Larobe will & Shall procecut the Said Complaint to Effect as the law directs
3 October 1692
                                The Marke
                                    O  of
Benja' Larobe

This recognizance was taken before me
*John Higginson Justye  

Complaint of Mary Browne of Reding Agst Sarah Cole of Lynn

( Suffolk Court Files, vol. 32, docket no. 2712 p. 49, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. )



(Warrant for apprehension of Sarah Cole, Summons for Witnesses, & Officer's Return )

[October 3, 1692 ]

Essex:  To the Constable of Lin

Complaint haveing ben made to us Bartho' Gidny and John Higginson Esq'rs. their majesties Justices of the Peace in Salem, by Benja. Larobe of Lin in behalfe of Mary Browne of Reding widow against Sarah Coale wife of John Coale of Lin. Cooper for that the Said Sarah Coale hath Greatly & feloniously hurt the Said Mary Browne by witchcraft to her great paine & damage & the Said Larobe hath given in bond to procecut the Said Complaint to Effect. These are therfore in their Majesties name to require you forthwith to Aprehend & Seize the Body of Sarah Coale the wife of John Coale of Lin Cooper & bring her before their Majesties Justices of the Peace in Salem ther to be Examined & proced with according to Law dated in Salem: 3 october 1692 

*Bartho' Gedney
*John Higginson 

To the Constable of Lin 

you are required in their Majesties name to Sumon Maj'r Swain Mary Browne Elizabeth Welman John Coale Benja' Larobe & the wife of  Dan'el Eaton that they & Every of them doe forthwith apeare before  their majesties Justices of the Peace in Salem their to give in their  testimony of what they know against Sarah Coale wife of John Coale  who is complained of for comitting Severall acts of witchcraft upon  the body of Mary Browne of Reding widow &c: & hereof make  returne faile not
dated in Salem  3. oct'r 1692  
*Bartho Gedney
*John Higginson  Justices Peace 

(Reverse)  In obedience to this Warrant I have  Seized the person w'thin mentioned
and brought her before Their Majesties  Justices of the Peace herein Octob'r 3: 1692
The Mark of X [?] Constable [torn]  

Sarah Coal wife of
Jn' Coal

( MS Ch K 1.40, vol. 1, p. 88, Dept. of Rare Books and Manuscripts, Boston Public Library, Boston, MA. )





(Examination of Sarah Cole )

[October 3, 1692]

The Examination of Sarah Cole of Lynne Octob'r -- 3 -- 1692 

She saith that the same night Capt Osgoods wife was examined She saw Eliz: Colston & Abraham Coles wife come into her house person-  ally to her apprehension and Jno Wilkinsons wife of Malden & one  of her sisters & a little Girle she did not know; about 10 years old  one of them had a piece of board w'th. nails in it thro the board at  the end about a foot long as broad as her hand, That one of her children was sorely afflected at that time, and s'd one of them did  strike her on the head w'th s'd board. They seemed to turn side  ways and so were gone w'ch was about midnight -- The child was  afflicted till Abr. Coles wife was take up. The beginning of the affliction in our family was upon a fast Day about a month agoe Abrah. Coles wife was at my house She Commended my children much for   pretty children & they w'r both taken sick my boy & girle, the Girle s'd she saw A. Coles wife afflict her severall times, had pins  thrust into her, was bit & scratched had a blow on her nose w'ch  caused her [to] nose to run Down w'th blood the last fit my child  had and Complained of her Aunt Cole was when s'd A. Coles wife  was brought to Salem One night being in bed I was sorely afflicted and saw a ball of fire I  arose to see w't was the matter before I got a light it went away --  the last thing I saw was a Dog w'ch I went to strike w'th a spade and was beat down my self this was about a week ago The Dog went out at a crack: in the side of the house 

Mary Warren being afflicted was brought to Goody Coale & w'th her  touch was recovered. & looked on her twice & struck her downe & recovered her w'th her hand Mary Warren said that she had sen this Coale many times with Goody Hart & another wo. & that she had  not afflicted her till this night; & said that a woman that said her  name was baites & a Child both stoad up before her & beged for  Vengance, Coale owned that she & some others toyed w'th a Venus  glase & an Egg. what trade their sweet harts should be of  

3[rd] Oct'r 1692  before
*John Higginson Just. Peace 

( Suffolk Court Files, Docket 2712, Page 49, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. )





(Indictment of Sarah Cole, for Afflicting Mary Brown)

[February 1, 1693 ]

Province of the Massachusetts  Bay in New England ss  //At a Superior Court of Judicature held at Charlston for the County of  Midlesex the 31 of January 1692/3  Annoq'e RR's & Reginae Gulielmi  & Mariae Angliae &ca Quarto

The Jurors for our Sovereigne lord and lady the King and Queen  Present That
Sarah Cole Wife of John Cole of Lynn in the County of Essex  Coop[er] On or about the twenty-sixt day of Sept'r In the yeare 1692 aforesaid and Divers other Days and times as well before as  after, Certaine Detestable Arts called Witchcrafts and Sorceries  Wickedly Mallitiously hath Used practised and Exercised at and in  the Towne of Reding -- In the County of Midlesex --
Upon and against One Mary Browne of Redin In the County  of Midlesex afores'd By which Wicked arts the said Mary Browne  The day and Yeare aforesaid, and Divers other Days and times as  well before as after was and is Tortured Tormented aflected Consumed Pined Wasted against the Peace of Our Soveraigne Lord  and Lady the King and Queen their Crowne and Dignity and the  Laws In that case made and Provided,

Witness Mary Browne
Jno Browne Jun.
Eliza Wellman --
Billa Vera
Jno Cole --
Mary Eaton --
Ben. Larobe --
Atest *Simon Stone Foreman  

(Reverse) Sarah Cole for bewitching Mary Browne
Pon't Se --
Not Guilty 

( Suffolk Court Files, vol. 32, docket 2712, p. 48,  Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. )





( Deposition of Mary Eaton, Sr.  v. Sarah Cole )

[October 3, 1692 ]

The Deposistion of Mary Eaton Sen'r Lyn: Saith that upon a Time  Sarah Cole wife of Jno Cole of Lyn and myself had some Difference  and with in averry Litle time I had a Cow taken in a Strange maner  and at that same time the afores'd Goodw. Cole came to my house  and Stood at my window and Said that she saw Something on the Cow. in the Barn and Desired that my daughter would goe w'th  her to the Barn & they boath went but when they came to the Barn  they Saw nothing on the Cow but they both heard agreat Noyes on the Scaffald in the Barn and Sarah Cole Said that She Believed the Cow was bewitched --
3 -- Oct'r 1692  Sworne in Court  Atest *Jno Higginson.  Just'e peace  

(Reverse) Mary Eaton Lynn 

(Suffolk Court Files, vol. 32, docket 2712, p. 48,  Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. )





( Deposition of Elizabeth Wellman v. Sarah Cole )

[+ October 3, 1692 ]

The deposision of elizzebeth Wellman aged forty five testifieth  and saith that she saw Sarah Cole the wif of John Cole the Cooper  liveing in the [house] of him goin [on a] in a plaine wood in august  past and she had cast the scirt of her garment over her neck, and she  saw a black thing of a considerable bigness goe by her sid and as soon  as Sarah Cole came against a tree that lay upon the ground This black thing was gon and be sene no more and Sarah Cole going a little  further turnd hir, face out to me she Claspt hir hands together and swong them twice overe hir head was gon and I coold se hir no more  and when I came to the place whare she toock hir Flite I lookt for  hir but coold not se hir. further saith not 1692
Elizzebeth Wellman 

(Suffolk Court Files, vol. 32, docket 2712, p. 48,  Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. ) 





( Deposition of John Brown v. Sarah Cole of Lynn)

[January 11, 1693 ]

The Deposition of Jno Browne aged about twenty five years: This Deponant Testifieth & saith that about the latter end of August Last 1692 being at the house of Jno Dole: coming out of s'd house  Sarah Cole leaving her husband talking with mee, she Broke out into  these expressions, that all Church members were Devills & that her husband was going to be a Devill too hee was then going to Joine  with the Church; whereupon I s'd Browne Replyed to her she had  often expressed her selfe very Badly & that if she didnot suddenly amend & leave of such expressions against Church members, their  was them that would take notice of it & she must answer for such  speeches wherupon she was silent & looked stedfastly upon mee  & I was taken Ile #[in about a week] presently as my evidence doth Declare.  

Owned before the Grand jury #[upon oath] by Jno Browne Jany'y 11'th  1692 upon the oath hee had taken. Jno Testified to the above s'd  upon the oath hee had taken  

January 11'th 1693 Attests *Robert Payne  foreman 

(Reverse) The s'd Jno Browne further saith That upon the said John Brownes being desired to adjust sum Damages Don by said Sarah Coles hogs had don to Abraham Welman that is as he believed about a fortnight aft'r he having been as afores'd he  Desired an Indian puding to be made w'ch was don and the flower and suet white and good when put into the pott but when Came out was red like a blud puding w'ch he believes was don by Sarah Cole who had thretened him for medling w'th the poding the Damages saying he had better not to have done.  

Jno Brown Jr

(Suffolk Court Files, vol. 32, docket no. 2712 p. 49,  Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. ) 





( Deposition of Abraham Wellman v. Sarah Cole of lynn )

[January 11, 1693 ]

The Deposition of Abraham Welman Aged about 49 years: This Deponant Testifieth & saith, that I had a Cow which some told mee  Sarah Cole Wife of Jno Cole had a great Desire to have & the s'd  Cow was taken with fitts though before she was as Gentle a Cow   as I would Desire to set Paill under after this time when she see  any person coming to milk her she would run & let none come near her for about a week, when s'd Cole was brought upon her examination that night & next morning, wee sent on of our Children to milk  s'd Cow, but she was wild as before, but after s'd Sarah Cole was  sentfrom her own house to Cambridge when she was gone as wee  thought to Redding or there about I sent one of my Children to milk  her the Cow stood still & gave down her milk & did from that day  till this time  

Abraham Welman owned the abovs'd before the Grand  Jury upon the oath hee had taken. Jan'r 11'th 1692/3

January 11'th 1693 
Attests  *Robert Payne
foreman 

(Suffolk Court Files, vol. 32, docket 2712, p. 49,  Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. )
 )



( Deposition of John Cole v. Sarah Cole )

[October 3, 1692 ]

Jno Cole Saith that Coming home to his house on saturday night  after his wife had seen strange sights -- That from that time his house hath been troubled w'th cats & Dogs w'ch he saw often  running up & down & one night he thinks he saw a ball of fire, & last Munday night being a week ago he saith as he was at prayer in  his family I heard something like a great thing flung against the  house & on a sudden it was at him & struck him on the head & on  one of his sides, and almost beat the breath out of his body -- so that I was forced to break of prayer for about half a quarter of an  hour w'n he revived again he proceeded in his prayer his wife being  asked affirms she knew nothing of his being hindered in his prayer --
W'th in a week or 8 Days after S'd Cole saw a great Cat of an unusuall bignes at my door, staring me in the face I pursued it w'ch  went into the stalks near the house and tho it was very calm all  the stalks did wave as if there had been a #[hurricane] strong wind -- and he  thinks since this some of his children have been afflicted by witchcraft and s'd Cole saith that for this 3 nights he had not lodged in his own house being so affrighted that he was afraid to stay or  lodge in it being sorely molested always about the dead of the night & was sorely handled last Saturday in his head & belly as if  a string had been twisted about his head
3 Oct'r 1692  Sworne in Court
atest. *John Higginson
Justice peace 

( Suffolk Court Files, Vol. 32, docket 2712 p. 49,  Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. )





( Deposition of Isaac Wellman v. Sarah Cole )

[January 11, 1693 ]

The Deposition of Isaac Welman Aged forty five years, this Deponant Testifieth & saith, that I have often heard the Wife of Jno Cole of Linn, wish harm to her Husband, & one time being both at  my house having some words, s'd Sarah Cole wished her Husband might Dye if ever he came within Daniell Eattons Doore any more

Isaac Welman owned the abovs'd  before the Grand jury
Jan'y. 11'th  1692/3 upon the oath hee had taken
*Robert Payne  Foreman:  

(Reverse) Isa: Wellman

( Suffolk Court Files, vol. 32 docket 2712 p. 49,  Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. )