SWP No. 106: Elizabeth Proctor

(See also Bridget Bishop -- Physical Examination; Martha Corey -- Mittimus. )





(Complaint of Jonathan Walcott & Nathaniell Ingersoll v. Elizabeth Proctor & Sarah Cloyce)

[April 4, 1692. ]

This. 4'th Aprill. 1692.  Capt Jonathan Walcott and Leut Nathaniell Ingerson personally Appeared before us & Exhibited there Compl't in behalfe of theyr Majestyes for them selves & Severall of theyr Neighbours against Sarah Cloyes wife of peter Cloyes of Salem Village & [Eliz.] proctur the wife of Jno proctur of Salem for High Suspition of Severall Acts of Wichcraft donne or comitted by them upon the Bodyes of Abigall Williames & John. Indian of the family of mr Sam'll parris, & Mary Walcott daughter of one of the complaynants & Ann. Putnam and Mercy Lewis of the family of Thomas putnam Whereby great hurt & damage hath bin donne to the Bodyes of s'd persons & Therefore Craved Justice

(Reverse) Walcutt &
Ingersol
comp'ts

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 96, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts Stte Archives, Boston, MA. )



(Warrant for the Apprehension of Elizabeth Proctor & Sarah Cloyce, and Officer's Return)

[April 8, 1692] 

There Being Complaint this day made (Before us) by Capt Jonat Walcott , and Lt Nathaniell Ingersull both of Salem Village, in Behalfe of theire Majesties for themselfes and also for severall of their Neighbours #[Made Compl] Against Sarah Cloyce the wife of peter Cloyce of Salem Village; and Elizabeth Procter the wife of John Procter of Salem farmes for high Suspition of Sundry acts of Witchcraft donne or Committed by them upon the bodys of Abigail Williams , and John Indian both of Mr Sam parris his family of Salem Village and Mary Walcott daugter  of one of the abovesaid Complainants, And Ann Putnam and Marcy Lewis of the famyly of Thomas Putnam of Salem Village whereby great hurt and dammage hath beene donne to the Bodys of s'd persons above named therefore Craved Justice.

You are therefore in theire Majest's names hereby required to apprehend and bring before us Sarah Cloyce the wife of peter Cloyce of Salem Village and Elizabeth procter the wife of John Procter of Salem farmes; on Munday Morneing Next being the Eleventh day of this Instant Aprill aboute Eleven of the Clock, at the publike Meeting house in the Towne, in order to theire Examination Relateing to the premises aboves'd and here of you are. not to faile Dated Salem Aprill 8'th 1692

To George Herick Marshall   *John Hathorne
  of the County of essex                                *Jonathan. Corwin ] Assists  

You are like wise to warne & order #[Summons] Eliz Hubert and Mary Warren not to faile of being present at the abouesd tyme & place to give in w't Euedence thay know therein 

Aprill. 11'th 1692  I have taken the persons of Sarah Cloycie and Elizabeth Procter and brought them befor this honorable Courte to answer aboveI have allso warned the above named Elizabeth Hubbart as above per to answer as above 

pr *Geo. Herrick Marshall of Essex

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 91, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA.)

(Examination of Sarah Cloyse and Elizabeth Proctor )

[April 11, 1692 ]

At a court held at Salem 11th April 1692,  by the honoured Thomas Danforth, Deputy Governor. Q. John [Indian]; who hurt you? A.  Goody Procter first, and then Goody Cloyse . Q. What did she do to you? A. she brought the book to me. Q. John [Indian]! tell the truth, who hurts you? have you been hurt? A. The first, was a gentlewoman I saw. Q. Who next? A. Goody Cloyse . Q. But who hurt you next? A. Goody Procter . Q. What did she do to you? A. She choaked me, and brought the book. Q. How oft did she come to torment you? A. A good many times, she and Goody Cloyse . Q. Do they come to you in the night as well as the day? A. They come most in the day. Q. Who? A. Goody Cloyse and Goody Procter . Q. Where did she take hold of you? A. Upon my throat, to stop my breath. Q. Do you know Goody Cloyse and Goody Proctor ? A. Yes, here is Goody Cloyse . (Cloyse) when did I hurt thee? A. A great many times. (Cloyse) Oh! you are a grievous liar. Q. What did this Goody Cloyse do to you? A. She pinched and bit me till the blood came. Q. How long since this woman came and hurt you? A. Yesterday at meeting. Q. At any time before? A. Yes a great many times. Q. Mary Walcot! who hurts you? A. Goody Cloyse. Q. What did she do to you? A. She hurt me. Q. Did she bring the book? A. Yes. Q. What was you to do with it? A. To touch it, and be well. -- Then she fell into a fit. Q. Doth she come alone? A. Sometimes alone, and sometimes in company with Goody Nurse and Goody Corey , and a great many I do not know. -- Then she fell into a fit again. -- Q. Abigail Williams! did you see a company at Mr. Parris's house eat and drink? A. Yes Sir, that was their sacrament. Q. How many were there? A. About forty, and Goody Cloyse and Goody Good were their deacons. Q. What was it? A. They said it was our blood, and they had it twice that day. Q. Mary Walcot! have you seen a white man? Yes, Sir, a great many times. Q. What sort of man was he? A. A fine grave man, and when he came, he made all the witches to tremble. -- Abigail Williams confirmed the same, and that they had such a sight at Deacon Ingersoll's . Q. Who was at Deacon Ingersoll's then? A. Goody Cloyse , Goody Nurse , Goody Corey , and Goody Good . -- Then Sarah Cloyse asked for water, and sat down as one seized with a dying fainting fit; and several of the afflicted fell into fits, and some of them cried out, Oh! her spirit is gone to prison to her sister Nurse . -- Q. Elizabeth Procter ! you understand whereof you are charged, viz. to be guilty of sundry acts of witchcraft; what say you to it? Speak the truth, and so you that are afflicted, you must speak the truth, as you will answer it before God another day. Mary Walcot! doth this woman hurt you? A. I never saw her so as to be hurt by her. Q. Mary Lewis! does she hurt you? -- Her mouth was  stopped. -- Q. Ann Putman , does she hurt you? -- She could not speak. -- Q. Abigail Williams! does she hurt you? -- Her hand was thrust in her own mouth. -- Q. John! does she hurt you? A. This is the woman that came in her shift and choaked me. Q. did she ever bring the book? A. Yes, Sir. Q. What to do? A. to write. Q. What, this woman? A. Yes, Sir. Q. Are you sure of it? A. Yes, Sir. -- Again, Abigail Williams and Ann Putman were spoke to by the court, but neither of them could make any answer, by reason of dumbness or other fits. Q. What do you say Goody Procter to these things? A. I take God in heaven to be my witness, that I know nothing of it, no more than the child unborn. Q. Ann Putman! doth this woman hurt you. A. Yes Sir, a great many times. -- Then the accused looked upon them and they fell into fits. Q. She does not bring the book to you, does she? A. Yes, Sir, often, and saith she hath made her maid set her hand to it. Q. Abigail Williams! does this woman hurt you? A. Yes, Sir, often. Q. Does she bring the book to you? A. Yes. Q. What would she have you do with it? A. To write in it and I shall be well. -- Did not you, said Abigal, tell me, that your maid had written? (Procter) Dear Child, it is not so. There is another judgement, dear child. -- Then Abigail and Ann had fits. -- By and by they cried out, look you there is Goody Procter upon the beam. -- By and by, both of them cried out of Goodman Procter himself, and said he was a wizard. -- Immediately, many, if not all of the bewitched, had grievous fits. -- Q. Ann Putman! who hurt you? A. Goodman Procter and his wife too. -- Afterwards some of the afflicted cried, there is Procter going to take up Mrs. Pope's feet. -- And her feet were immediately taken up. -- Q. What do you say Goodman Proctor to these things? A. I know not, I am innocent. -- Abigail Williams cried out, there is Goodman Procter going to Mrs. Pope , and immediately, said Pope fell into a fit. -- You see the devil will deceive you; the children could see what you was going to do before the woman was hurt. I would advise you to repentance, for the devil is bringing you out. -- Abigail Williams cried out again, there is Goodman Procter going to hurt Goody Bibber; and immediately Goody Bibber fell into a fit. There was the like of Mary Walcot , and divers others. -- Benjamin Gould gave in his testimony, that he had seen Goodman Corey and his wife, Procter and his wife, Goody Cloyse , Goody Nurse , and Goody Griggs in his chamber last thursday night. -- Elizabeth Hubbard was in a trance during the whole examination. -- During the examination of Elizabeth Procter , Abigail Williams and Ann Putman ,  both made offer to strike at said Procter ; but when Abigail's hand came near, it opened, whereas it was made up into a fist before, and came done exceeding lightly, as it drew near to said Procter , and at length with open and extended fingers, touched Procter's hood very lightly. Immediately Abigail cried out, her fingers, her fingers, burned, and Ann Putman took on most greviously, of her head, and sunk down.

Salem, April 11th, 1692. Mr. Samuel Parris was desired by the honourable Thomas Danforth , deputy-governor, and the council, to take in writing the aforesaid examinations, and accordingly took and delivered them in; and upon hearing the same, and seeing what was then seen, together with the charge of the afflicted persons, were by the advice of the council all committed by us,

John Hawthorne,

John Corwin, Assistants.

( Thomas Hutchinson , History of Massachusetts-Bay, vol. 2, (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1936). pp. 21-23 .)





(Council Record Pertaining to Sarah Cloyce, Martha Cory Dorothy Good, Rebecca Nurse, Elizabeth Proctor & John Proctor )

[April 11, 1692]

Salem                     At a Councill held at Salem.
                                and pr'sent
Aprill 11 -- 1692
Thomas Danforth Esq'r Dept. Gov'er

James Russell --   Maj'r Sam Appleton
John Hathorne Capt Samuell Sewall
Isaac Adington Jonath' Corwin
                                                                              Esq'rs  

Whereas Complaint was Exhibited by Capt Jonathan Walcot and Leiu't Nathaniell Ingersall both of Salem Village, on behalfe of theire Majest's not only for themselfes, but also for severall of theire Neighbours Against Sarah Cloyce the wife of peter Cloyce of Salem Village, and Elizabeth procter the wife of John procter of Salem farmes for high Suspition of Sundry acts of witchcraft donne or Committed by them upon the Bodys of abigail Williams and John Indian both of mr Sam parris his famyly in Salem Village, Mary Walcot Ann putnam and Marcy Lewis &c -- accord'g to s'd Compl't appears.

Salem Aprill 8'th 

And Warrants being given forth for theire apprehention s'd Cloyce and procter ware by George Herrick Marshall of Essex brought before us, and mr Samuell parris being desired and appointed to wright the Examination, did take the same & also read itt before the Councill in publicke. And John procter of Salem farmes being then personally present was by Abigail Williams and Anna putnam Charged with severall acts of Witchcraft by him Committed on the person of #[Goody] Mrs pope the wife of mr Joseph pope and Others, who ware at s'd tyme accordingly afflicted 

apparent to all, likewise marcy Lewis and [] Gold charged s'd John procter at s'd tyme upon w'ch s'd Jno proctor & his wife and Sarah Cloyce ware all Committed to prison per advise of the Councill  

Aprill 12'th 1692  

Also further Information being Given against s'd Jno procter by mr Samueell parris. Aprill 12'th as appeares.

Aprill 12'th 1692  

John procter and Elizabeth procter his wife and Sarah Cloyce , also: Rebecka Nurse . Martha Cory and Dorothy Good ware sent to Boston Goale
per Marshall Geo: Herrick -- upon high Suspition
as aboves'd --

(Reverse) Councill at Salem Apr'll 11'th 1692 Sarah Cloyce Eliz. Proctor

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 92, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )





(Indictment No. 1 of Elizabeth Proctor , for Afflicting Mary Walcott)

[+ June 30, 1692  ]

Anno Regis et Reginae Willm et Mariae nunc Angliae &c Quarto Essex ss
The Jurors for our Sovereigne Lord and Lady the King and Queen p'esents That: Elizabeth Procter Wife of John Procter of Salem -- the 11'th Day of Aprill in the fourth Year of the Reigne of our Sovereigne Lord and Lady William and Mary: by the Grace of God of England Scottland France and Ireland King and Queen Defenders of the faith &c and Divers other Dayes and times. as well before, as after, certaine Detestable Arts called witchcraft & sorceries, wickedly and feloniously  hath usedractised and Exercised, at and within the Towneship of Salem in the County of Essex aforesaid in upon and ag't on Mary Walcott of Salem Villiage Singlewoman -- by which said wicked arts the said Mary Walcott the II'th Day of Aprill in the forth Year as aboves'd and Divers other Dayes and times as well before; as after was and is Tortured afflicted Pined Consumed wasted and Tormented: and also for sundry other acts of witchcraft by said Elizabeth Procter Committed and donne be fore and since that time ag't the Peace of our Sovereigne Lord and Lady, the King and Queen and ag't the forme of the Statute in that case made and Provided
Witnesses.
Mary Wolcutt  Sworn
Ann Putman  Sworn
Mercy Lewis  Sworn

(Reverse) No. El. Procter
(1)
bill a vera
Procter & wife  

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 90, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )





(Indictment No. 2 v. Elizabeth Proctor, for Afflicting Mercy Lewis)

[+ June 30, 1692  ]

Anno Regis et Reginae Willm et Mariae nunc Angliae &c Quarto Essex ss
The Jurors for our Sovereigne Lord and Lady the King and Queen pbar;'esents that Elizabeth Procter . Wife of John Procter of Salem husbandman -- the 11'th day of Aprill in the forth year of the Reigne of our Sovereigne Lord and Lady William and Mary by the Grace of God. of England Scottland France and Ireland King and Queen Defenders of the faith &c and Divers other Dayes and times as well before as after, Certain Detestable Arts called Witchcrafts and Sorceries Wickedly and feloniously hath used Practised and Exercised at and within the Towneship of Salem in the County of Essex afores'd in Upon and ag't one Marcy Lewis of Salem Villiage in the County afores'd Singlewoman by which said wicked Arts, the said Marcy Lewis the 11'th Day of Aprill in the forth year abovesaid and Divers other Dayes and times as well before as after was and is Tortured Afflicted Pined Consumed wasted & Tormented, And also for Sundry  other Actsf Witchcraft by the said Elizabeth. Procter Committed and Done before and since that time. ag't the peace of our Sovereigne Lord and Lady the King and Queen and ag't the forme of the Statute, in that case made and Provided.

Witnesses 

Mercy Lewis. ] Sworn
Ann Putman ] Sworn
Eliz. Hubbard ] Sworn

(Reverse) Bill a vera No. Eli. Proctor. )
                      (2) 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 89, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )



(Petition for John Proctor and Elizabeth Proctor )

[++ August 5, 1692  ]

We whose names are under witten havinge several yeares knowne John Procter and his wife do testefy that we never heard or understood that they were ever suspected to be guilty of the crime now charged apon them and several of us being their neare neighbours do testefy that to our aprehension they lived christian life in their famely and were ever ready to helpe such as stood in need of their helpe

*Nathaniel Felton sen:
and mary his wife
Samuel Marsh
and Prescilla his wife
*James Houlton
and Ruth his wife
*John Felton
*Nathaniel Felton jun
*Samuell Frayll
and an his wife
*Zachriah Marsh
and mary his wife
*Samuel Endecott
and hanah his wife
*Samuell Stone
*George Locker
*Samuel Gaskil & provided his wife
*George Smith
*Ed Edward: Gaskile

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 110. )



( Testimony of Daniel Elliott for Elizabeth Proctor )

[+ August 5, 1692 ]

the testimony of Daniel elet aged 27 years or thear abouts who testifieth & saith that I being at the hous of leutennant ingasone one the 28 of march in the year 1692 thear being preasent one of the aflicted persons which cryed out and said thears goody procter William raiment juner being theare present told the garle he beleved she lyed for he saw nothing then goody ingerson told the garl she told aly for thear was nothing: then the garl said that she did it for sport they must have some sport

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 109. )





(Declaration of Arthur Abbott Concerning Testimony About Elizabeth Proctor )

[November 9, 1692 ]

This may Certifie all whome this writting shall come before, that on the 15'th of October 1692, Arthur Abbut sent for me Daniell Epps and Capt Thomas wade Esqr both of Ipwich, finding himselfe very weake and Ill by Reason of some sad distempers upon him, in Order to the makeing his will. leaveing something that might be to the view of the world -- Reffering to the Evidence that he had given in the Honored Court of Oyer and terminer held at Sallem a little before, which was as followeth, Viz:

I Arthur Abbut haveing a great impulse upon me to declare unto the Honored Court (as abovesayed sitting in Salem) some things that I had formarly discoursed with Goodwife procter of Salem about and seen in her House, And gave Evidence thereof unto the s'd Honored Court, being a short time after sent for by the Wor'll Samuel Appleton Esq'r And by him accused for takeing a false oath therein, I doe humblie acknowledg my weaknes and reale sorrow for mentioning stateing the time, or any way insisting upon that, Butt being Extraordinarily Charged with fallshood as to the things I had both seen and heard in her House, I did with more than ordinarie Exprestion atest the truth thereof And doe as in the presence of God, before whose Tribunall, both the accuser and the accused must appeare, Certinly affirme upon good Consideration and deep meditation, that to be true, which I had before declared to the Court, neither did I intend any of those great and solem expressions at Majore Appletons , should any way be understood as to the time, but the things themselves,  and this desired to leave to the world, not knowing how it might please God to deale with me;

This was taken from Arthur Abbut at his Earnest request, at the time above mentioned by us
*Daniell Epps . J: p
Dated this 9'th of November 1692
I also affirme that I did hear the said Arther Abbutt the day above mentioned (when Cap't. Epps was present) declare & affirme that what he had before said was the Truth according as is above Expressed. it being read to him or the like words after it was taken downe from his Mouth. speach
                                                                      Wittness *Thos Wade: J. P.

(Reverse) Arthur Abbott
his declaration
when sick before
Justices

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 108. )





(Deposition of Elizabeth Hubbard v. Elizabeth Proctor )

[+ April 11, 1692 ]

The Deposistion of Elizabeth Hubburd agged about 17 years who testifieth and saith that about the begining of April 1692 I saw the Apperishtion of Elizabeth procktor the wife of john procktor sen'r and she did immediatly tortor me most greviously all most redy to choak me to death: urging me to writ in hir book: and so she continewed afflecting of me by times tell the day of hir examination being the 11th of Aprill and then also I was tortored most greviously dureing the time of hir examination I could not spake a word and also severall times sence the Apperishtion of Elizabeth procktor has tortored me most greviously by biting pinching and allmost choaking me to death urging me dreadfully to writ in hir book

mark: Eliz: Hubburd
        Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) Elizabeth Hubbard ag't Eliz
procter
Elizabeth procktor 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 97. )





(Deposition of Mary Warren v. Elizabeth Proctor )

[June 30, 1692 ]

The Deposistion of mary warrin aged a bout 20 years ho testefieth and saith I have often seen the apperition of The Deposistion of Elizabth Procter the wife of John proctor a mong the witches and she hath often tortored me most greviously by biting me and choakeing me and pinching me and presing my stomack tell the blood Came out of my mouth and allso upon the day of hir examingnation I saw her tortor mary walcoot marcy lues ann putnamElizabeth Hubbertabigell williams and she hath ever sence at times tortored me most greviously Mary Warrin owned this har testimony to be the truth before the Juriars of Inqwest this 30 of June 1692
Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) Mary Warren Con El. Procter ( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, No. 102. )





(Testimony of Abigail Williams v. Elizabeth Proctor )

[May 31, 1692 ]

The testimony of Abigail Williams Witnesseth & saith that divers times in the month of March last past, #[past,] particularly on the. 14. 21. & 29. dayes of the same month, and also divers times in the month of April last past, particularly, on the 2. &. 13. dayes, she the said Abigailhath been greviously vexed with the apparition of Eliz: Proctor the wife of John Proctor of Salem, by which apparition she has been greviously pinched, had also her bowels almost pulled out, by this together with the apparition of Rebekah Nurse, & by the afores'd apparition of Elizabeth Proctor has been tempted by the offer of fine things to subscribe to a book the said apparition tendered her the said Abigail Williams.

May 31: 1692  The mark of 

A  W  

Abigail  Williams. attested before  Abigail Williams owned to the Jury of inquest: that the above writen evidence is the truth: June 30: 92 

(Reverse) Abig Williams ag'st Eliz: Procter 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 No. 94. )





(Deposition of [Mary Walcott] v. Elizabeth Proctor )

[+ April 11, 1692 ]

The Deposistion of mary walcott agged about 17 years who testifeth and saith that I never saw the Apperishtion of Elizabeth proctor the wife of Jno: proctor before the day of hir examination being the 11'th Aprill 1692: but sence that time the Apperishtion of Elizabeth Proctor has most greviously afflected me by biting pinching and almost choaking me urging me to writ in hir book
                                                        mark
Mary  M W  Walcott
                                                        hir 

Mary Walcut owned her Deposition above written upon her oath before & unto the Grand inquest on the 30'th Day of June 1692 --                              Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) Mary Walcott against
Eliz: proctor 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, No. 95. )





(Deposition of Ann Putnam, Jr. v. Elizabeth Proctor )

[+ April 11, 1692 ]

The Deposistion of Ann putnam Jun who testifieth and saith that on the 3'th of march 1691/92 #[of march] I saw the Apperishtion of gooddy procktor  amongst the wicthes & she did almost choake me Immediatly and bite and pinch me but I did not know who she was tell the 6'th of march that I saw hir att meeting and then I tould them that held me that that woman was one that did afflect me: and severall times sence she hath greviously afflected me by biting pinching and almost choaking me urging me vehemently to writ in hir book: but on the 11'th April 1692 the Apperishtion of Elizabeth proctor the wife of John procktor sen'r did most greviously torment me dureing the time of hir examination and also severall times sence by biting pinching and allmost choaking me to death urging me vehemently to writ in hir book: also on the 11'th April it being the day of the examination of Elizabeth proctor I saw the Apperishtion of Elizabeth proctor goe  and afflect the bodys of Mistris pope Mary walcott Mircy lewes Abigail Williams and also all the time of hir examination she and hir: Husband and Sarah Cloys did most greviously afflect Elizabeth Hubboardand would not let hir spake a word as I hard

ann Putnam owned this har testimony to be the truth one har oath before the Juriars of Inqwest this: 30 dy of June; 1692
                                                      Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) Ann puttnam ag't Eliza.
procter 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, No. 101. )





(Deposition of Stephen Bittford v. Elizabeth Proctor and Rebecca Nurse )

[June 30, 1692 ]

The Deposistion of Steephen Bittford agged about 23 years who testifieth and saith that about the begining of April 1692 about midnight as I was a bed att the house of James Darling of Salem I being parfittly awake I saw standing in the chamber Rebekah Nurs and Elizabeth procktor the wife of John procktor whom I very well knew and I was in very grate paine in my neck and could not stir my head nor spake a word but I cannot say that it was they that hurt me and for .2. or 3 dayes after I could not stir my neck but as I moved my wholl body
                                                                  mark
                                                          Steephen  O   Bittford
                                                                    his 

Stephen bittford owned this his testimony to be
  the truth on his oath before the Juriars of Inquest this. 30. of June: 1692       Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) Stephen bittford testimony 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 No. 100. )





(Deposition of Mercy Lewis v. Elizabeth Proctor )

[+ April 11, 1692 ]

The Deposistion of Mircy lewes aged about 19 years who testifieth and [saith] that on the 26th march #[1691/2] 1692 I saw the Apperishtion of Elizabeth proctor the wife of Jno proctor senr.: and she did most greviously tortor me by biting and pinching me most greviously urging me to writ in hir book and she continewed hurting me by temes tell the 11'th April 1692 being the day of hir examination and then also dureing the time of hir examination she did #[most greviously]tortor me most greviously and also severall times sence: also on the day of hir examination I saw the Apperishtion of Elizabeth proctor #[afflect the bodys of mary walcott Abigaill williams and Ann putnam jur]

Mercy Lewes owned this har testimony to be the truth one har oath: before the Juriars of Inqwest this 30 of June 1692                                            * Mercy Lewes

(Reverse) Mircy lewes against:
Elizabeth proctor

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 No. 99.)





( Testimony of William Rayment Jr. for Elizabeth Proctor )

[? August 5, 1692 ]

The testimony of William Rayment aged 26 years or there about testifieth and saith that I being at the hous of Left'nt Ingarsols some time in the Later end of march; there discoursing conserning the examyning of sewerall persons suspected for wiches: I was saying that I hard that goody procter twas to be examyned to morrow to which goody Ingarsoll replyed she did not beleve it for she heard nothing of it: some of the afflicted persons being present one of them or more cryed out there goody procter  there goody procter and old #[which]witch Ile have her hang goody Ingersoll sharply reproved them then they semed to make a Jest of it

(Reverse) william rayment

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 98 )





( Testimony of William Rayment Jr. for Elizabeth Proctor, Copy )

[? August 5, 1692 ]

The testimony of william Rayment aged 26 years or there abouts testifieth & saith that I being at the house of leftint Ingesone . some  time in the later end of march: there discoursing conserning. the examying of severall person suspected for witches: I was saying that I hard that goody procter was to be examyned to morrow to which goody ingersone replyed she did not beleve it for she heard nothing of it; some of The afflicted persons being present one of them or more cryed out there is goody procter there is goody procter and old wich Ile have har hung goody ingerson Sharply reproved them: then they semed to make. a Jest of it

(Reverse) Wm. Rayment.

( Essex Institute Collection, No. 26. Peabody Essex Museum. Salem, MA.  Also Essex County Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 98)





( Deposition of Thomas Putnam and Edward Putnam v. Elizabeth Proctor, )

[+ April 11, 1692 ]

The Deposistion of Thomas putnam agged 40 years and Edward putnam agged 36 years who testifie and say that we haveing been conversant with divers of the afflected parsons as mary walcott mercy lewes Eliz Hubburt and ann putnam and we have seen them most dreadfully tormented and complaining of Elizabeth proctor for hurting them: but on the 11'th April 1692. being the day of hir Examination the afforesaid parsons ware much affleted dureing the time of hir Examination also severall times sence we have seen the afforesaid parsons most dreadfully tormented as if all their bones would have been disjoyned compl[ainin]g of goody proctor for hurting them: and we verily beleve in our hearts that Eliz: proctor the prizsoner at the barr. [h]as very often afflected the affore said parson by acts of wicthcraft
& that thay have seen many bites on the afflicted p[er]sons w'ch they said was Elizabeth
proctor that did it.  Jurat in Curia
                                                      Attest.  *Stephen Sew'll 

(Raverse) Tho & Edw. Puttnam 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, No. 93.)





(Elizabeth Booth v. Elizabeth Proctor )

[June 30, 1692]

The Deposistion of Eliz: Booth agged about 18: years who testifieth and saith that on the 27 June Elizabeth proctor came to me and did most greviously tortor me by biting pinching and pricking me and allmost choaking me: and tould me that my mother nor I would not beleve that she was a wicth but she said she would make me know she was a wicth before she had don with me.
*Eliz: Booth --

elizabeth Booth owenid this har testimony to be the truth one har
oath before the Juriars of Inqwest this 30. dy of June 1692
                                                            Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) El. Booth 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 No. 103 )





(Testimony of Elizabeth Booth v. Elizabeth Proctor and John Proctor & Martha Cory )

[June 30, 1692]

The testimony of Elesebth Booth Aged 18 years or their a bout testifieth & saith that one the 8 day of June father Law Shafling Apered unto me & said Elesebeth procktor Kiled him Because my mother wold not seand for doctor grigs to give him feseke & also Because she was not sent for when he was. first taken sicke
Elesebeth Booth

The testimony of Elesebeth Booth Aged 18 years or their about testifieth that one the 8 day of June Robert Stone Sinyer Apered unto me. & told me that John proctor Sinyer & Elesebeth his wife Kiled him Because they had Som diferance in a rekninge & also. at the same time Robert Stone Juner Apered unto me & told me that John prockter & Elesebeth his wife Kiled him be Cause he tooke his fatheirs part     Elesebeth Booth 

(Reverse) Booth agt procter 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft vol. 1, no. 104. )





(Testimony of Elizabeth Booth v. Elizabeth Proctor and John Willard )

[June 30, 1692]

The testimony of Elisebeth Booth Aged 18 yers or ther about testifieth that one the 8 of June hugh Joanes Apered unto me & told me that Elesebeth procter Kiled him be Cause he had a poght of sider of her which he had not paid her for

Elesebeth Booth.

The testimony of Elesebeth Booth. Aged 18 yers or their a bout testifieth that one the 8 of June Elesebeth Shaw apeared unto me & told me that Elesebeth proctor & John wilard Kiled Her Because she did not use those doctors she Advised her too

Elesebeth Booth

The testimony of Elesebeth Booth Aged 18 yers or their a bout testifieth that one the 8 of June the wife of John fulton Apered unto me & told me that Elesebeth proctor Kiled her Because she would not give her Aples when she sent for sum

Elesebeth Booth

The testimony of Elesebeth Booth Aged 18 yers or their a bout testifieth that one the 8 of June Doc'r Zerubabel Endecot Apered unto me & told me Elesebeth proctor Kiled him because they difered in their judgments a bout thomas veries wife & lickwis the saide Elesebeth proctor would have kiled doct Endecots wife but Cold not But lamed her a Good while
Elesebeth Booth 

All the Depositions of Elisabeth Booth written in this side of paper were acknowledge by said Booth before & unto the Grand inquest on the: 30'th Day of June 1692 upon Oath

(Reverse) Procter 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, No. 105.)





(Deposition of Joseph Bailey & Priscilla Bailey v. Elizabeth Proctor & John Proctor )

[+ August 5, 1692]

The deposition of Joseph Bayley aged forty four years testifyeth and saith, that I on the: 25'th: day of may last my self & my wife being  bound to Boston, on the road when I came in Sight of the house where John proctor did live, there was a very hard blow strook on my brest which caused great pain in my Stumoc & amasement in my head but did see no person near me only my wife behind me on the same hors, and when I came against s'd proctors house according to my understanding I did se[e] John proctor & his wife att s'd house proctor himself loocked out of the windo & his wife did stand Just without the door, I tould my wife of it, & shee did loock that way & could see nothing but a littell maid att the dore I saw no maide there but proctors wife according to my understanding did stand att the dore, afterwards about half a mile from the afores'd house I was taken spechles for sum short time my wife did ask me severall questions and desiered me that if I could not speak I should hould up my hand which I did. and immediatly I could speak as well as ever, and when we came to the way where Salem Road cometh into Ipswich road there I received another blow on my brest which caused much pain that I could not sitt on my hors and when I did alite off my hors, to my understanding I saw a woman coming towards us about sixteen or twenty pole from us but did not know who it was my wife could not see her when I did get up on my hors againe to my understanding there Stood a cow where I saw the woman, after that we went to Boston without any father molestation but after I came home againe to newbury I was pinched and nipt by sumthing invisible for sumtime but now through gods goodness to me I am well again
                             Jurat in Curia  by both persons.  

(Reverse) Joseph Bayley & wife 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 No. 106. )



( Testimony of Samuel Barton & John Houghton for Elizabeth Proctor )

[+ August 5, 1692]

the testimony of Samuel Barton aged 28 years or therabouts who testifieth and saith that I being at Thomas putnams a helping to tend the aflickted folks i heard them talking who the Children Complained of an I heard them teel mercy lewes that she Cryed out of goody procter and mercy lewes said that she did not Cry out of goody procter nor nobody she said she did say thear she is but did not teel them who and Thomas putnam & his wife & others told her that she Cryed out of goody procter and marcy lewes said if she did it was when she was out in her head for she said she saw nobody this being the 29 of march in the year 1691/2

John Houghton aged 23 testifieth and saith I this Deponent was present at the same tyme above written and I heard Thomas Putnam , and his wife say[d] that mercy Lewis saw. or named the wife of John Procter. in her fits. and we heard the sayd mercy Lewis affirme that she never sayd that ever she saw her  

(Reverse) In Behalfe Proctor

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, No. 107. )





( Deposition of Samuel Parris , Nathaniel Ingersoll and Thomas Putnam v. Elizabeth Proctor )

[+ April 11, 1692]

The Deposition of Sam: Parris aged about.39.years, & Nathanael Ingersol aged about fifty & eight year, & Thomas Putnam aged about fourty years all of Salem --

testifyeth & saith that John Indian , Ann Putman & Abigail Williams & others of the bewitched persons were severall times & greivously tortured at the Examination of Elizabeth Proctor wife to John Proctor of Salem Farmes before the Honoured Magistrates the. 11'th April. 1692 . & particularly that Eliz: Hubbard was in a Trance during the whole examination unable to speak a word tho often called upon by s'd Magistrates, & also the said Abigail Williams & Ann Putman then testifyed that they saw this Eliz: Proctor & her husband John Proctor severall times afflicting of Bathshua Pope the wife of Joseph Pope of Salem Yeoman, at which times the said Bathshua Pope was seized with violent fits: & farther that the said Abigail Williams & Ann Putnam, both of them made offer to strike at said Eliz. Proctor , but when said Abigails hand came near to said Eliz: Proctor it opend (whereas it was made up into a fist before) & came down exceeding lightly as it drew near to said Proctor , & at length with open & extended fingers touche said Proctors hood very lightly, & immediately said Abigail cryed out, Oh! my fingers, my fingers, my fingers burne, & Ann Putman took on most greviously of her head, & sunk down, as far as she could being held up by such as tended her.

Nath: Ingatson and thom. Putman did on their oaths owne this their testimonies to be the truth be fore the Juriors of Inques this 30 of June 1692.

( Essex Institute Collection, no. 18, James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. Also Rare Books & Manuscripts, MsCh.2.500, Boston Public Library, Boston, MA. )



(Petition of Elizabeth Proctor to Recover the Estate of John Proctor )

[May 27, 1696]

To the Honourable Generall Court Asembled at Boston may twenty seventh 1696
the Humble petetion of Elizabeth procter widow and Relict of John proctor of salem decesed Humbly sheweth

that in the yere of our Lord 1692 when many persons in salem and in other towns ther about were accused by som evill disposed or strangly Influenced persons, as being witches or for being guilty of acting witchcraft my s'd Husband John procter and my selfe were accused of such and we both: my s'd Husband and my selfe were soe farr proceded against that we were Condemned but in that sad time of darkness before my said husband was executed it is evident som body had Contrived awill and brought it to him to sign wher in his wholl estat is disposed of not having Regard to a contract in wrighting mad with me before mariag with him; but soe it pleased god to order by his providence that although the sentanc was executed on my dere husband yet through gods great goodnes to your petitioner I am yet alive; sinc my husbands death the s'd will is proved and aproved by the Judg of probate and by that kind of desposall the wholl estat is disposed of; and although god hath Granted my life yet those that claime my s'd husbands estate by that which thay Call awill will not suffer me to have one peny of the Estat nither upon the acount of my husbands Contract with me before mariage nor yet upon the acount of the dowr which as I humbly conceive doth belong or ought to belong to me by the law for thay say that I am dead in the law and therfore my humble request and petetion to this Honoured Generall Court is that by an act of his honoured Court as god hath Contenewed my life and through gods goodnes  without feare of being put to death upon that sentanc you would be pleased to put me Into acapacity to make use of the law to Recover that which of Right by law I ought to have for my nessesary suply and support that as I your petetioner am one of his majestyes subjects I may have the benifett of his laws soe Humbly prayeng that god would direct your honnours in all things to doe that which may be well pleasing to him I subscrib your honours humble petetioner
Elizabeth procter widow 

Read 10th June. 1696 in Council 

(Reverse)  Elizebeth Procter her petetion
1696 

( Mass. Archives Vol. 135, no. 109. Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )