SWP No. 045: Mary Esty Executed, September 22, 1692

(See also: Sarah Wilds -- Warrant; William Hobbs -- Mittimus



(Complaint of John Putnam, Jr. and Benjamin Hutchinson v. Mary Esty with Warrant for the Apprehension of Mary Easty, and Officer's Return )

[May 20, 1692 ]

Salem May the 20th 1692 

There being Complaint this day made before mee by John putnam Jun'r. and Benjamin Hutcheson both of Salem Village, for themselfes and also for theire Neighbours, in behalfe of theire Majesties against Marah Easty the wife of Isaac Easty](/tag/esty_isaac_sr.html) of Topsfield for sundry acts of witchcrafts by her Committed yesterday and this present  day of the date hereof upon the bodys of Ann putnam Marcy Lewis Mary Walcot and Abigail Williams of Salem village to the wrong and Injury of theire bodys therefore crave Justice.
*John putnam Jun
*Boniamin Huchinson

To the Marshall of the County of Essex or dept or Constables of Salem You are in theire Majest's names hereby required to apprehend and forthwith bring before mee at the house of mr. Thomas Beadles in Salem the Body of Mary Easty the wife Isaac Easty of Topsfeild to be Examined Relateing to sundry acts of witchcraft by  her Committed yesterday and this present day according to Complaint aboves'd and hereof you are not to faile Dated Salem
May 20th 1692
*John: Hathorne. Assist
                                per order of the Councill.  

I have taken the body of the above named Mary Estiee and  brought her att the time and place above named
                                Per me *Geo: Herrick
                                Marshall of Essex 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 276, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Examination of Mary Esty )

[April 22, 1692]

The Examination of Mary Eastie .
At a Court held at Salem village 22. Apr. 1692 

By the Wop. [=worshipful] John Hathorne & Jonathan Corwin.

At the bringing in of the the accused severall fell into fits.
Doth this woman hurt you?
Many mouths were stopt, & several other fits seized them
Abig: Williams said it was Goody Eastie , & she had hurt her, the  like said Mary Walcot , & Ann Putman , John indian said her saw her with Goody Hobbs .
What do you say, are you guilty?
I can say before Christ Jesus, I am free.
You see these accuse you.
There is a God --
Hath she brought the book to you?
Their mouths were stopt.
What have you done to these children?
I know nothing.
How can you say you know nothing, when you see these tormented, & accuse you that you know nothing?
Would you have me accuse my self?
Yes if you be guilty.
How far have you complyed w'th Satan whereby he takes this  advantage ag't you?
Sir, I never complyed but prayed against him all my dayes, I  have no complyance with Satan, in this. What would you have  me do?
Confess if you be guilty.
I will say it, if it was my last time, I am clear of this sin.
Of what sin?
Of witchcraft.
Are you certain this is the woman?
Never a one could speak for fits.
By and by Ann Putman said that was the woman, it was like her,  & she told me her name;
It is marvailous to me that #[she] you should sometimes think  they are bewitcht, & sometimes not, when severall confess that they  have been guilty of bewitching them.
Well Sir would you have me confess that that I never knew?
Her hands were clincht together, & then the hands of Mercy Lewis was clincht
Look now you hands are open, her hands are open.
Is this the woman?
They made signes but could not speak, but Ann Putman afterwards Betty Hubbard cryed out Oh. Goody Easty , Goody Easty you  are the woman, you are the woman
Put up her head, for while her head is bowed the necks of these  are broken.
What do you say to this?
Why God will know.
Nay God knows now.
I know he dos.
What did you think of the actions of others before your sisters  came out, did you think it was Witchcraft?
I cannot tell.
Why do you not think it is Witchcraft?
It is an evil spirit, but wither it be witchcraft I do not know,  Severall said she brought them the Book & then they fell into fits.

Salem Village March 24'th. 1691/2
Mr Sam'l parris being desired to take
in wrighting the Examination of
Mary Eastie hath delivered itt
as aforesaid

Upon heareing the aforesaid, and seeing what wee then did see,
togeather with the Charge: of the persons then present Wee
Committed s'd. Mary Easte to theire Majest's Goale
*John Hathorne
*Jonathan. Corwin {  Assists 

(Reverse) The Examination of Mary Eastie 22. Apr. 1692 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 281. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Indictment No. 1 v. Mary Esty , for Afflicting Mercy Lewis)

[+ August 3, 1692]

Province of the Massachusetts  Bay in New England  Essex ssAnno Regni Regis & Reginae  Gullielmi et Mariae nunc Angliae  &c: Quarto: Anno'qe Dom 1692

The Jurors for our Sovereigne Lord & Lady the King & Queen  pr'sents That Mary Easty wife of Isaack Easty of Topsfield husbandman on the twenty third day of May in the fourth year of the Reigne  of our Sovereigne Lord and Lady William and Mary by the Grace of  God of England Scottland France and Ireland King & Queen Defenders of the faith &c. and divers other Dayes and times as well  before as After, certaine Detestable arts called Witchcrafts and  Sorceries Wickedly and feloniously hath used Practised and Exercised at and within the Towneship of Salem in the County of Essex  aforesaid in upon and against one Marcy Lewis of Salem Villiage  Singlewoman by which said wicked Arts the said Marcy Lewis the  Twenty third day of May in the year abovesaid and Divers other Dayes and times as well before as after, was and is Tortured Afflicted  Pined Consumed wasted & Tormented ag't: the Peace of our Sovereigne Lord and Lady the King and Queen and ag't. the form of the  Statute in that case made and Provided --

Witnesses
Marcy Lewis Jurat
Ann Putman Jurat 
Eliz. Hubbard Jurat
Mary Wolcott Jurat 

(Reverse) Indictm't Mary Easty for bewitching Marsy Lewis No.  ( I )  Billa No. I  Ponet Se 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 278. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Indictment No. 2 v. Mary Esty , for Afflicting Elizabeth Hubbard)

[+ August 3, 1692]

Province of the Massachusetts  Bay in New England  Essex ssAnno Regni Regis et Reginae  Gullielmi & Mariae nunc Angliae  &c: Quarto Ano'qe Dom 1692

The Juro's for our Sovereigne Lord and Lady the King and  Queen pr'sents That: Mary Easty wife of Isaack Easty of Topsfeild  husbandman the twenty third day of May -- in the fourth year of the Reigne of our Sovereigne Lord and Lady -- William & Mary by the  Grace of God of England Scottland France & Ireland King and  Queen Defenders of the faith &c: and Divers other Dayes and times as well before as after certaine Detestable Arts called witchcrafts  & Sorceries wickedly and felloniously hath used Practised and Exercised at and within the Towneship of Salem in the County of Essex  afores'd: in upon and ag't one Elizabeth Hubbard of Salem Single --  women by which said wicked Arts the said Elizabeth Hubbard the twenty third Day of May in the fourth year aboves'd: and Divers other Dayes and times as well before, as after was, and is, Tortured  Afflicted Pined Consumed wasted and Tormented ag't. the Peace of our Sovereigne Lord and Lady the King and Queen and agt. the form  of the Statute in that case made and Provided

Witnesses
Eliz: Hubbard Jurat
Marcy Lewis Jurat
Ann Putman Jurat 

(Reverse) Mary Easty Indictm't for bewitching Eliz Hobard No. (2)  Billa:  Vera Ponet Se 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 277. )





(Summons for Witnesses)

[September 6, 1692]

W'm & Mary by the Grace of God of England Scotland France  & Ireland King & Queen defend'r of the faith &c'a.

To the Constable of Topsfield Greeting Wee Command you to Warn & Give Notice unto the Wife of Abraham Reddington . Mary Towne  Widow William Towne & Samuel Towne Sons of s'd Mary Towne Rebecka & Elizabeth Towne dauthters of s'd Widow Towne that they & Every of them all Excuses set apart be and personaly  appear at the Court of Oyer & Terminer holden at Salem to Morrow by Twelve of the Clock hereof make return fail not dated in Salem Sep'r. 6.th 1692 & in the fourth yeare of Our Reign
*Stephen Sewall Cler 

(Reverse) I haue somensed and warned al the parsons with in nemed as as atested by me
Ephraim Willdes constabell o topsfelld 

( Witchcraft Papers, no. 36, Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston, MA.)



(Excuse of Mary Towne )

[September 7, 1692] 

To the Honered Court now Seting in Salem 

Right honered: the Constabll of Topsfild hath sarved a warent  one me and too of my sons and too of my dafters: to Apere this day  at Salem I humbly baig that your honers will not Impuet any thing  concarning our not coming as Contempt of athority for ware I my  selfe or any of my famely sent for in any capasete of Coming we  would Com but we are in a Straing condicion and most of us can  scars git of of our beads we are so wake and not abell to Reid at all:  as for my dafter Rebaka she hath Straing fits somtimes she is knoked  downe of a sodin: #[and that espachaly If hur ant Easty be but named:]

*Mary Towne
Dat the 7th of September 1692  

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol 1. no. 287. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Summons for Mary Towne and Rebecca Towne, and Officer's Return )

[September 8, 1692 ]

W'm & Mary by the Grace of God of England Scotland france & Ireland King & Queen defend'rs of the faith

To Mary Towne widow & Rebecka Towne her Daughter Greeting.

Wee Comand you all Excuses Set apart to be & appear at the Court of Oyer & Terminer holden at Salem to morrow morning at Eight of the Clock precisely there to Testify the truth to the best of your knowledge on Sever'll Indictments Exhibited against Mary Easty hereof fail not at your utmost perill Dated in Salem  Sep'r. 8th. 1692 & in the fourth yeare of Our Reign
*Stephen Sewall Cler
To the Constable of Topsfield hereof Make return fail not  

(Reverse) I have Warned the Widow town and hare dauter to apere at the corte.
acording to time spoken of in the warant as atested.
by me *Ephraim Wildes contabl of
topsfeld 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 288. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





( Statement of Thomas Fosse and Elizabeth Fosse for Mary Esty )

[September 5, 1692 ]

thes may Sartifie home it may cun[cern]  that wee hows names are undor Ritt[en]  Being dasired by some of the Realeations of  mary estweke to give our obsarvation how  she behaved hur self while she Roumain[ed]  in Ipswech prison we dow afarme th[at]  wee sawe noe ell carreg or behav[iour in]   hure but that hure daportment wosi [torn]  Sobor and civell as wittnes our h[ands this]
5 Saptem 92                                     thomos  Fosse 
                                                 his mark ]
elesabeth Foss
                                                  hur mark ]

(Reverse) thomos Fosse tastimoney
about marey Astey 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 289. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )



( Statement of John and Mary Arnold for Mary Esty and Sarah Cloyce )

[++ September 9, 1692 ]

These may Cartify home it may Consarne that wee hous names are  underritten being dasired by sum of the Realeations of Mary estwek  and sarah Cloise to give our obsarvation how they behaved tham sales  while thay Remained in Bostorn prison we dow affirme [th] at wee  [torn] saw noe ill Carreg or Behavor in tham But that thare daportment wase verey sobere and Civell as wittnes our hands
John Arnold
Marey Arnold 

this is truee copie 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 296. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





( George Herrick and John Putnam, Jr. v. Mary Esty )

[May 20, 1692 ]

May 20th 1692 . 

The testimone of Geo: Herrick aged thirty  four or thereaboutes and John Puttnam Jun'r of Salem Village aged  thirty five yeares or there aboutes and saith that beeing att the  house of the above s'd John Puttnams both saw Mercy Lewis in a very Dreadfull and Solemn Condition: So that to our aprehention  shee could not continue long in this world without A mittigation  of thoes Torments wee saw her # [in] which Caused us to Expediate  A hasty dispacth to apprehend Mary Estick in hopes if possable it might save her Life and Returneing the same night to s'd John Puttnams house aboute middnight wee found the s'd Mercy Lewis  in A Dreadfull fitt but her Reason was then Returned Againe she said what have you brought me the winding Sheet Goodwife Estice , well I had rather goe into the winding Sheet then Sett my hand to the Book but affter that her fitts was weaker and weaker but still Complaining that Shee was very Sick of her Stomake aboute break  of Day She fell a sleep but still Continues Extream sick and was  taken with A Dread fitt Just as wee left her so that wee perceaved  life in her and that was all

[Benj Huchinson] testifieth the same ]

Jurat in Curia 
Sep'r. 9th. 92:   

Atest *Geo: Herrick
*John.putnam.Jun 

(Reverse) George Herrick
against mary Estick 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 280. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





( Deposition of Jonathan Putnam , James Darling , Benjamin Hutchinson, and Samuel Braybrook v. Mary Esty )

[+ May 20, 1692 ]

The deposition of Jonathan Putman , James Darling , Benja. Hutchinson & Sam: Braybrook w'o testify & say that we together with divers others the 20. May. 1692 between eight & eleven aclock  at night being with Mercy Lewes whom we found in a dase as if death would have quickly followed, & to whom Eliz: Hubbard was  brought (said Mercy being unable to speak most of the day) to discover what she could see did afflict said Mercy, heard & observed  that these two fell into fits by turns, the one being well whilst the  other was ill, & that each of them complained much of Mary Eastie, who brought the book to said Mercy severall times as we heard her say in her trances, & vexed & tortured them both by choking &  seemingly breathless fits & other fits, threatning said Mercy with a winding sheet & afterwards with a Coffin if said Mercy would not signe to her book, with abundance more of vexations they both  received from her.

(Reverse) Jonath: Putman
James Darlin &c
against Mary Esty

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 279. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Deposition of Mary Walcott v. Mary Esty)

[May 23, 1692 ]

The Depoestion of Mary Walcott: who Testifieth and saith on  the 20th of may 1692: about twelve of the clock: I saw the Apparition of goody: Eastteck come and pinch. & choake me: and terrified me much and she told me that she had blinded al our eyes that  ware afflicted only mersy Lueies for she said that she had not power to.doe itt on that day she was cleared: on this 20th Instante of may:  92 about an hour by sun I went to mr John Putnams to see mersey Lueis: and their I saw the apparition of the above said goody Easteck:  a choaking of mersey Lueis and pressing upon hur breast with her; hands and I saw hur put a chane aboute her nick and choaked her: and all the while I was their I saw her hurting of her griveiously: and  she told me that she would kill her this night if she could
                      Sworne Salem Village  May 23rd. 1692 
                            before us *John Hathorne
*Jonathan Corwin {  Assists 

(Reverse) mary Walcott ffurther testifieth that on 23 may 1692.
mary Estick did most greviously torment me during the time of hir
examination also the day I saw hir or hir Apperanc most greviously
torment mercy lewesEliz Hubbrt and ann putnam and I veryly beleve in my hart that mary Estick is a most dreadfull wicth and that she hath very often most dreadfully tormented me and parsons above named by hir acts of wicthcraft. 

Mary walcot declared: before the Jury of Inquest that the above  written evidence and that on the other side of this paper: is the  truth: upon oath: Aug'st 4: 1692 

[left margin] Mary Walcott ver Mary Eastey 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 284. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Testimony of Sarah Bibber v. Mary Esty)

[August 3, 1692 ]

Sarah: Viber: afirmed upon her oath: that she saw Mary: the wife of Isaac Esty: upon Jno Nortons: bed: when s'd Norton: was:ill: and s'd goody Esty flew out upon her: & afflicted her: s'd Vibber:  and s'd Vibber affirmed: that since the time of the last examination of s'd Esty: s'd Esty: has hurt & afflicted mercy Lewis: and mary walcot & Ann:Putman: she or her Apperition: & she s'd Esty has some times hurt & afflicted her: s'd Vibber also since s'd: Esty her last examination: also: s'd Vibber: s'd: that: s'd Esty or her #[apperition] apperition has Afflicted: Eliz: Hubbard: this s'd Vibber owned: to be: the truth: before the Jury of inquest Aug'st: 3: 1692  

(Reverse) Sarah wiber Mary Eastey 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 282. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )



( Statementof Mary Warren v. Mary Esty)

[August 3, 1692 ]

Mary: Warin: affirmd: before: the #[grand] Jury: of Inquest: that: Good- wife Esty of Topsfeild: has: afflicted her: she or: her Apperition: And that s'd Esty: hath afflicted Marcy Lewis: Elizabeth: Hubbard: & Mary Walcot and Ann Putnam: upon: the oath:that she has taken:
                                                Aug'st: 3: 1692 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 283. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Deposition of Abigail Williams and Ann Putnam, Jr. v. Mary Esty , & Deposition of John Willard , and Mary Witheridge & Testimony of Ann Putnam, Jr. v. Mary Easty )

[May 23, 1692 ]

The Deposistion of Abigaill williams and Ann putnam who testifieth  and saith that we both goeing along with goodman Abby and Sarah Trask the 20th of may 1692 to the house of Constable Jno: putnam to se mercy lewes. as we ware in the way we both saw the Apperishtion of Gooddy Estick the very same woman that was sent whom the other day: and also the Apperishtion of Goody Estick tould us both that now she was afflecting of Mircy lewes because  she would not clear hir as others did and w'n came to who laye speachless and in a sad condition we saw there the Apperishtions of  gooddy Estick and Jno. willard and mary witheridge afflecting and choaking mircy lewes in a most dreadfull maner.which did most  greviously affright us and immediatly gooddy Estick did fall upon us  and tortor us allso Redy to choake us to death

Abigail Williams and An putnam
Testified to the truth of the  abous'd Evedence
Salem Village  May the 23d. 1692
Before us  *John Hathorne
*Jonathan. Corwin {  Assists

Ann putnam further testifieth that on 23 may 1692: being the  last day of the examination of mary Estick she did most greviously  torment me dureing the time of hir examination also on the same  day I saw mary Estick or hir Apperane most greviously torment and  afflect mary walcott mercy lewes Eliz Hubburd and abigail william and I veryly beleve in my hart that mary Estick is a most dreadfull  wicth and that she hath very often afflected me and the persons affore named by hir acts of wictchraft.

Ann Putnam: declared: to the Jury of Inquest: that her above written evidence: is the truth upon her oath: Aug'st 4: 1692

(Reverse) Ann Putman &c
ver. Eastick

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 286.Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Deposition of Elizabeth Hubbard v. Mary Esty, John Willard,  & Mary Witheridge)

[August 4, 1692]

The Deposistion of Elizabeth Hubburt who testifieth and saith  I being caryed up to Constable Jno. putnams house on the 20th of may 1692: to se Mircy lewes who laid speachless and in a sad condition: I saw there the apperishtions of gooddy estick the very  same woman that was sent whom the other day: and Jno. willard  and mary witherridge Afflecting and tortoring of Mircy lewes in a  most dreadfull maner.which did affright me most greviously: and  immediatly gooddy Estick did sett upon me most dreadfully and  tortored me almost Ready to choak me to death and urged me  vehemently to writ in hir book
                                      Sworne Salem Village  May the 23d: 1692. 
                                      Before us  *John Hathorne
*Jonathan. Corwin {  Assists. 

we whose names are under writen heaving been along with Elizabeth . Huburd this time above mentioned herd hir declare what is  above writen and we read it to hir when we came away and she  said it was all true this 21 may 1692
Thomas putnam
John.putnam Jun  Jurat in Curia Sept'r. 9th. 1692 

Eliz Hubburd further testifieth that on the 23 may 1692 being  the last day of the examination of mary Estick she did most greviously  afflect and torment me dureing the time of hir Examination allso  dureing the time of her examination I saw mary Estick most greviously  aflect and torment mary walcott mercy lewes Abigail williams and ann putnam by twisting and all most choaking them to death  and I verily beleve in my heart that mary estick is a most dreadfull  wicth and that she hath very often afflected and tormented me and  parsons above named by hir acts of wicthcraft 

Eliz. Hubbard declared the two above written evidences: in this paper
before the Jury of Inquest: to be the truth:upon oath: August 4:1692 

(Reverse)El. Hubbard
Contr. Easty 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 285. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





( Deposition of Samuel Abby & Testimony of Sarah Trask v. Mary Esty , John Willard ,  & Mary Witheridge )

[+ May 23, 1692]

The Deposistion of Samuell Abby aged about 45 years who  testifieth and saith that on the 20th of may 1692 I went to the  house. of constable Jno. putnam:about 9 a clock in the moring and  when I came there: Mircy lewes lay on the bed in a sad condition and  continewing speachless for about an hour: the man not being at  whom: the woman desired me to goe to Tho: putnams to bring Ann putnam to se if she could se who it was that hurt mircy lewes: accordingly  I went: and found Abigail williams along with ann putnam:  and brought them both to se mircy lewes: and as they ware a goeing  along the way both of them said that they saw the Apperishtion of  Goody Estick and said it was the same woman that was sent whom  the other day: and said also that they saw the Apperishtion of the  other woman that appered with goody estick the other day.and both  of them allso said that the Apperishtion of goody Estick tould them  that now she was afflecting of mircy lewes: and when they came to  Mircy lewes both of them said that they saw the Apperishtion of  goody Estick and Jno. willard and mary witheridge afflecting the  body of mircy lewes: and I continewing along with mircy who continewed in a sad condition the greatest part of the day being in such  tortors as no toungue can express: but not able to spake: but at last  said Deare lord Receive my soule and againe said Lord let them not  kill me quitt, but att last she came to hir self for a little whille and  was very sensable and [and] then she said that goody estick said  she would kill hir before midnight because she did not cleare hir  so as the Rest did. then againe presently she fell very bad and cried  out pray for the salvation of my soule for they will kil me
Jurat in Curia  Sep'r. 9th. 92  

Sarah Trask ageed about 19 years testifieth that she went along  with Abigaill williams and #[Mircy Lewis] Ann putnam and also hard them say what is above writen they said: and also hard mircy lewes declare what is above writen she said.  

(Reverse) Sam Abbey 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol 1, no. 290. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





( Deposition of Edward Putnam v. Mary Esty )

[+ September 9, 1692]

the deposistion of Edward Putnam aged abought 38 years ho testifieth and saith abought 18 day of may 1692 mary easty the prisner now at the bar being then seat at liberty but one the 20 and 21 days of may marcy lues was so greviously aflicted and tortred by her (as she her self and mary walcott: an putnam Elizabeth hubbart abigel williams (said) I my self being ther present with several others with marcy lues looked for nothing else: but present death with marcy lues for all most the space of two days and a night she was choked allmost to death in so much we thought sumtimes she had banded her mouth and teath shut and all this very often untell shuch time as we under stood mary easty was laid in Irons, allso  apon the second day of mary estys examination at the vilag marcy lues mary walcott elizabeth hubbart ann putnam mary warrin and abigell williams when mary easty came to the mar. [= bar?] was Choked in shuch a most greuious. maner that the honred magestrats Cold not proseed to her examminnation untell they desired mee haile to go to paryer and in prayer time and sumtime after it they remaned in this sad condition of being all most choked to death and when they ware abul again to speak they all with one Consent charged her that she did them that mischef. I all so have hard sum of them Complain very often of hur hurting them with the spindall of a wheel.
*Edward putnam
                                        Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) Ed'd. Putm'n 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol 1 no. 291 )





(Deposition of Samuel Smith v. Mary Esty)

[++ April 22, 1692]

The deposistion of Samuell Smith of Boxford about 25 yers who testifieth and saith that about five years sence I was one night att the house of Isaac Estick sen'r. of Topsfeild and I was as farr as I know to Rude in discorse and the above said Esticks wife said  to me I would not have you be so rude in discorse for I might Rue it hereafter and as I was agoeing whom that night about a quarter of  a mille from the said Esticks house by a stone wall I Received a little blow on my shoulder with I know not what and the stone wall rattleed very much which affrighted me my horse also was affrighted very much but I cannot give the reson of it.

(Reverse) Sam'll Smith ag'st.
G. Easty

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 292. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )



( Deposition of Margaret Reddington v. Mary Esty)

[++ April 22, 1692]

the depesiasian of margret Redengton eged about seventiy yers testifieth and saith that a bout three yers a gow I was at good mon Esties and talking with his wife a bout an In fermety I hade  and presantly after I fell Into a most sollom condision and the thresday before the thanksgiving that wee hade last. In the afternone I was exseding elle and that night godey Estiey apered to mee and  profered me a pece of fresh mete and I tolld hare twas not fete for the doges and I would have non of ite and then she vanished a waye

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 293. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Petition of Mary Esty and Sarah Cloyce)

[++ September 9, 1692]

The humble Request of Mary Esty and
Sarah Cloys to the Honoured Court.

Humbly sheweth, that whereas we two Sisters Mary Esty  & Sarah Cloys stand now before the Honoured court charged with the  suspition of Witchcraft, our humble request is first that seing we are  neither able to plead our owne cause, nor is councell alowed to those in our condicion; that you who are our Judges, would please to be of councell to us, to direct us wherein we may stand in neede.  Secondly that whereas we are not conscious to ourselves of any  guilt in the least degree of that crime, wherof we are now accused  (in the presence of the Living God we speake it, before whose awfull Tribunall we know we shall ere Long appeare) nor of any other scandalouse evill, or miscaryage inconsistant with Christianity, Those  who have had the Longest and best knowledge of us, being persons of good report, may be suffered to Testifie upon oath what they know concerning each of us, viz Mr. Capen the pastour and those of  the Towne & Church of Topsfield, who are ready to say somthing  which we hope may be looked upon, as very considerable in this  matter; with the seven children of one of us, viz Mary Esty , and it may be produced of Like nature in reference to the wife of Peter Cloys , her sister. Thirdly that the Testimony of witches, or such as are afflicted, as is supposed, by witches may not be improved to condemn us, without other Legal evidence concurring, we hope the Honoured Court & Jury will be soe tender of the lives of such,  as we are who have for many years Lived under the unblemished reputation of Christianity, as not to condemne them without a fayre and equall hearing of what may be sayd for us, as well as against us. And your poore supplyants shall be bound always to pray &c.

(Reverse) Easty & Cloyce
peticon

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1. no. 295. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Petition of Mary Esty )

[++ September 15, 1692]

The humbl petition of mary Eastick unto his Excellencyes S'r W'm Phipps to the honour'd Judge and Bench now Sitting In Judicature in Salem and the Reverend ministers humbly sheweth

That whereas your poor and humble Petition[er] being condemned  to die Doe humbly begg of you to take it into your Judicious and  pious considerations that your Poor and humble petitioner knowing  my own Innocencye Blised be the Lord for it and seeing plainly  the wiles and subtility of my accusers by my Selfe can not but Judg charitably of others that are going the same way of my selfe  if the Lord stepps not mightily in i was confined a #[my selfe if the Lord] whole month  upon the same account that I am condemed now for and then cleared by the #[same] afflicted persons as some of your honours know and in #[cl cleared of] two dayes time I was cryed out upon by them and have been confined and now am condemned to die the Lord above knows my  Innocencye then and Likewise does now as att the great day will be  known to men and Angells -- I Petition to your honours not for my  own life for I know I must die and my appointed time is sett but the  Lord he knowes it is that if it be possible no more Innocentt blood  may be shed which undoubtidly cannot be Avoydd In the way and  course you goe in I question not but your honours does to the  uttmost of your Powers in the discovery and detecting of witchcraft and witches and would not be gulty of Innocent blood for the world  but by my own Innocencye I know you are in the wrong way the  Lord in his infinite mercye #[no more] direct you in this great work if it be his  blessed will that no more Innocent blood be shed I would humbly  begg of you that your honors would be plesed to examine theis  Aflicted Persons strictly and keepe them apart some time and Likewise to try some of these confesing wichis I being confident there  is severall of them has belyed themselves and others as will appeare  if not in this wor[l]d I am sure in the world to come whither I am  now agoing and I Question not but youle see an alteration of thes  things they say my selfe and others having made a League with the  Divel #[will] we cannot confesse I know and the Lord knowes as will shortly  appeare they belye me and so I Question not but they doe others the  Lord above who is the Searcher of all hearts knowes that as I shall  answer it att the 

(Reverse) Tribunall seat that I know not the least thinge  of witchcraft therfore I cannot I dare not belye my own soule I  beg your honers not to deny this my humble petition from a poor dy ing Innocent person and I Question not but the Lord will give  a blesing to yor endevers

To his Excellencye S'r W'm Phipps: Govern'r and to the  honoured Judge and Magistrates now setting in Judicature in  Salem.

(Reverse) Mary Easty Petition

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1. no. 294. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )