SWP No. 116: Susannah Roots

(See also: Sarah Proctor -- Complaint )





(Warrant for the Apprehension of Susannah Roots, and Officer's Return)

[May 21, 1692]

Salem May 21=1692 

To the Constables of Beverly. 

Whereas Complaint hath been this day made before us, by Sergent Thomas Puttnam and John Puttnam: both of Salem village yeomen against Susannah Roots of Beverly widdow for Sundry acts of witchcrafft by her Commited on the bodys of Mary Wallcott Abigal Williams Marcy Lewis Ann Puttnam and others.

You are therfore in their Majesties names hereby Required to apprehend and forthwith bring before us Susannah Roots of Beverly widdow, who stands charged with Committing Sundry acts of witchcraft as above s'd to the wrong and Injury of the bodys of the abovenamed persons, in order to her Examination Relateing to the above s'd premises faile not Dated Salem May the 21'st 1692

To the Marshall of Essex or his Deputy
John Hathorne
Jonathan. Corwin
                                            Per order of the Governer & Councell 

vera Copia attes't *Geo: Herrick Marshall of Essex

May 21=1692
I doe apoint m'r Jonathan Biles to bee my Lawffull Deputy to serve this warrant
*Geo: Herrick Marshall of Essex

(Reverse) I have prosecutted the within written warant and have aprehended the person of the within mentioned Suzanah Roots and Brought her befour awthority. 23: may 1692
                                              By mee *Jonathan Biles
                                                 Cunstible of Beverly

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 305, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Statement of Andrew Elliott v. Susannah Roots)

[+ May 23, 1692]

An information if it might be any help in the Examination of the person before you goode Roots I being in the house of m'r Laurence Dennis some time since she was suspected for what shee is now before you & there was Likewise Leonard Austen of ou'r Town of Beverly s'd Austen then s'd that he thought she was a bad woman, his reason was that he Living in the house with s'd Roots not Long since and when he went to prayer at any time with his wife & thought sd Roots would acompany them in s'd Duty but Did not at any time but would withdraw & absent her selfe: & further when my self and wife were gone to bed & she unto her bed. she would rise in the night & we Could here her talk in the roome below I lying in the Chamber over s'd roome as if there there were: 5: or six persons with her more s'd Austen might speak if Caled thereunto as far as know more Concering Roots 
*Andrew Eliott 

(Reverse)  Andrew Elliot
ag't G: Roots 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 306, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )