SWP No. 033: Sarah Cloyce

(See also: Elizabeth Proctor -- Complaint, Elizabeth Proctor -- Warrant, Elizabeth Proctor -- Examination, Elizabeth Proctor -- Mittimus; Martha Corey -- Mittimus; Mary Esty -- Petition of Mary Esty and Sarah Cloyce .)





(Indictment No. 1 of Sarah Cloyce, for Afflicting Abigail Williams, Returned Ignoramous)

[++ January 13, 1693 ]

Essex in the Province  of the Massachusetts  Bay in New EnglandAnno RR's & Reginae & Mariae Angliae &c  Quarto Annoq'e Domini 1692.

The Jurors for our Soveraigne Lord & Lady the King and Queen  doe present That Sarah Cloyce Wife of Peter Cloyce of Salem --  in the County of Essex Husbandman upon or about the n'th Day of April -- In the yeare aforesaid and divers other Days and times as  well before as after Certaine Detestable Arts called Witchcraft and  Sorceries Wickedly Mallitiously and felloniously hath used practised  and Exercised At and in the Towne of Salem in the Country of  Essex -- aforesaid in upon and against one Abigail Williams of Salem --  aforesaid Single Woman -- by which said Wicked Acts the said Abigaill Williams the Day & Yeare -- aforesaid and Divers other Days  and times both before and after was and is Tortured Aflicted Consumed Wasted Pined and Tormented against the Peace of our Sov'r  Lord and Lady the King & Queen theire Crowne and Dignity and  The Law In that case made and Provided

(Reverse) Indictment against Sarah
Cloyc for bewitching Abigail Williams

Ignoramus
Robert Payne
foreman

( Suffolk Court Files, vol. 32, docket no. 2677b p. 8. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. )





(Indictment No. 2 of Sarah Cloyce, for Afflcting Mary Walcott, Returned Ignoramous )

[++ January 13, 1693 ]

Essex in the Province  of the Massachusetts Bay in New England Anno RR's & Reginae Gulielmi & Mariae  Angliae &c Quarto Annoq'e Domini 1692//

The Juniors for our Sov'r Lord and Lady the King and Queen doe  present that Sarah Cloyce wife of Peter Cloyce of Salem -- In the  County of Essex In or upon the Eleventh Day of Aprill -- In the yeare aforesaid and Divers other Days and times as well before as  after Certaine detestable arts called Withcrafts and Sorceries Wicked-  ly Mallitiously and felloniously hath used practised and Exercised At  and in the Towne of Salem -- aforesaid in the County of Essex --  aforesaid in and upon & against one Mary Walcott of Salem -- aforesaid Single Woman -- by which said Wicked acts the said Mary Walcott -- the Day & yeare -- aforesaid and divors other Days and times  both before and after was and is Tortured Aflicted Consumed Wasted  Pined and Tormented, and also for Sundry other Acts of Witchcraft  by the said Sarah Cloyce -- Comitted and done before and since that  time against the Peace of our Sov'r Lord and Lady the King and  Queen theire Crowne and Dignity and the forme in the Stattute  In that case made and Provided

Indictm't
ags't Sarah Cloyse
for bewitching Mary Walcott

(Reverse)  Ignoramus.
*Robert Payne
foreman

( Suffolk Court Files vol. 32, docket no. 2677a, p. 7. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. )





(Indictment No. 3 of Sarah Cloyce, for Afflicting Rebecca Towne, Returned Ignoramous)

[++ January 13, 1693 ]

Essex in the Province  of the Massachusetts  Bay in New England  ss//Anno RR's & Reginae Gulielmi & Mariae  Angliae &c Quarto Annoq'e Domini 1692

The Jurors for our Sover' Lord and Lady the King & Queen doe  present that Sarah Cloyce Wife of Peter Cloyce of Salem -- In the County of Essex Husbandman -- In & upon the Ninth Day of the Inst September -- In the yeare aforesaid and Divers other Days and  times as well before as after Certaine Detestable arts called Witchcraft and Sorceries Wickedly Mallitiously and felloniously hath used practised and Exercised At and in the Towne of Salem in the County  of Essex -- aforesaid in upon and against one Rebeckah Towne of Topsfeild in the County of Essex aforesaid Single Woman -- by which  said Wicked Acts the said Rebeckah Towne the Day & yeare -- aforesaid and divers other Days and times both before and after was and  is Tortured Aflicted Consumed Pined Wasted and Tormented, and  also for sundry other acts of Witchcraft by the said Sarah Cloyce --  Comitted and done be fore and Since that time against the Peace of our Sov'rn Lord and Lady the King & Queen theire Crowne and  Dignity and the forme of the Stattute In that case made and Provided.

(Reverse) Indictment ags't Sarah Cloyce
for bewitching Rebbecka Towne

Ignoramus
*Robert Payne
foreman

( Suffolk Court Files, vol. 32, docket no. 2677, p. 8. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. )