SWP No. 092: Susannah Martin Executed July 19, 1692

(See also: George Burroughs -- Complaint; Bridget Bishop -- Physical Examination; Sarah Good -- Death Warrant.)





(Warrant for the apprehension of Susannah Martin, & Officer's Return )

[April 30, 1692]

To The Marshall of the County of Essex
or his Lawfull deputie
or to the Constable of Amesburry. 

You are in their Majests names hereby required forthwith or as soon as may be to apprehend and bring (before us) Susanna Martin of Amesbury #[Widow] in the County of Essex Widdow at the house of Lt Nathaniell Ingersalls in Salem Village, in order to her Examination Relateing to high Suspition of Sundry acts of Witchcraft donne or Committed by her upon the Bodys of Mary Walcot Abigail Williams Ann putnam and Marcy Lewis of Salem Village or farmes  

Where by great hurt and dammage hath benne donne to the bodys of Said persons according to Compl't of Capt Jonathan Walcot & Serg't Thomas putnam in behalfe of their Majests this day Exhibited before us for themselfes and also for #[ther] Severall of theire Neighbours and here of You are not to faile at your perills. Dated Salem Aprile 30th 1692
                        per us *John. Hathorne ] Assists
*Jonathan Corwin ] 

(Reverse) Susanna Martin
according this warrant I have apprehended
Susanna Mratin widdow: of Amsbery and have brought
or caused hir to be brought to the place appointed
for hir examination  per me *orlando Bagly:
Constable of Amsbery  

Salem village this 2th: may 1692

Susanna Martin 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 171, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )



(Mittimus for Susannah Martin , Lydia Dustin , Dorcas Hoar , and Sarah Morey )

[May 2, 1692]

To. the Keeper of theire Majests Goale in Boston  

You are in theire Majests names hereby required to take into, your care and safe Custody the Bodys of Susanah Martin of Amesbury Widdow, Lydia Dastin of Reding Wi[ddow], Dorcas Hoare of Beverly widdow and Sarah Murrill also of Beverly who all stand Charged with high Suspition of Sundry acts of Witchcraft donne or Committed by them upon the Bodys of Mary Walcot Marcy Lewis Abigail Williams Ann putnam Elizabeth Hubbert and Susannah Sheldon andGoody Viber of Salem Village or ffarmes whereby great hurt and dammage hath beene donne to the bodys [lost - of] said persons according to Complaint of Capt Jonathan Walcot and Serj't Thomas putnam of Salem Village Yeoman Exhibited Salem April the 30th. 1692: Whome you are to secure in order to theire further Examination or Tryall and hereof you are not to faile  Dated Salem Village  May 2d. 1692
*John Hathorne ] Assists
*Jonathan. Corwin ] Assists 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1,no. 177. )







(Examination of Susannah Martin, Draft Copy by the Rev. Samuel Paris )

[May 2, 1692 ]

The Examination of Susan: Martin. 2. May 1692 

As soon as she came in Many had fits.
Do you know this Woman
Abig: Williams saith it is Goody Martin she hath hurt me often. Others by fits were hindered from speaking.
Eliz: Hubbard said she hath not been hurt by her. John Indian said he hath not seen her  Mercy Lewes pointed to her & fell into a little fit. Ann Putman threw her Glove in a fit at her
  The examinant laught.
What do you laugh at it?
Well I may at such folly.
Is this folly? The hurt of these persons?
I never hurt man woman or child.
Mercy Lewes cryed out she hath hurt me a great many times, & pulls me down
    Then Martin laught againe
Mary Walcot saith this woman hath hurt me a great many times. Sus: Sheldon also accused her of afflicting her.
What do you say to this?
I have no hand in Witchcraft.
What did you do? Did not you give your consent?
No, never in my life.
What ails this people?
I do not know.
But w't do you think?
I do not desire to spend my judgm't upon it.
Do not you think they are Bewitcht?
No. I do not think they are
Tell me your thoughts about them.
Why my thoughts are my own, when they are in, but when they are out they are anothers.
You said their Master -- who do you think is their Master?
If they be dealing in the black art, you may know as well as I.
Well what have you done towards this?
Nothing.
Why it is you, or your appearance.
I cannot help it.
That may be your Master.
I desire to lead my self according to the #[will of God] word of God.
Is this according to Gods word?
If I were such a person I would tell you the truth.
How comes your appearance just now to hurt these.
How do I know?
Are not you willing to tell the Truth?
I cannot tell: He that appeared in sams shape a glorifyed saint can appear in any ones shape.
Do you beleive these do not say true?
They may lye for ought I know
May not you lye?
I dare not tell a lye if it would save my life.
Then you will speak the Truth.
[lost =I] I have spake nothing else, I would do them any good.
I do not think you have such affections for them, whom just now you insinuated had the Devill for their Master.
Eliz: Hubbard was afflicted & then the Marshal w'o was by her said she pincht her hand.
Severall of the afflicted cryed out they [lost =saw] her upon the beam.
Pray God discover you, if you be guilty.
Amen. Amen. A false tongue will never make a guilty person.
You have been a long time coming to the Court to day, you can come fast enough in the night.said Mercy Lewes.
No, sweet heart, said the examinat, And then Mercy Lewes , & all, or many of the rest, were afflicted
John Indian fell into a violent fit, & said it was that woman, she bites, she bites, and then she was biting her lips
Have you not compassion for these afflicted?
No, I have none
Some cryed out there was the black man with her, & Goody Bibber who had not accused her before confirmed it.
Abig: William upon trial could not come near her -- Nor Goody Bibber. Nor Mary Walcot. John Indian cryed he would Kill her if he came near her, but he was flung down in his approach to her
What is the reason these cannot come near you?
I cannot tell. It may be the Devil bears me more malice than an other
Do not you see how God evidently discovers you?
No, not a bit for that.
All the congregation think so.
Let them think w't. they will.
What is the reason these cannot come near you?
I do not know but they can if they will or else if you please, I will come to them.
What is the black man whispering to you?
There was none whispered to me 

(Reverse) The Examination of Susannah Martin

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 174, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )



(Examination of Susannah Martin, Final Copy by Rev. Samuel Paris )

[May 2, 1692 ]

The Examination of Susannah Martin. .2. May. 1692 

As soon as she came into the meeting-house many fell into fits
Hath this Woman hurt you?
Abig: Williams said it is Goody Martin, she hath hurt me often Others by fits were hindered from speaking.
Eliz: Hubbard said she had not hurt her. John Indian said he never saw her Mercy Lewes pointed at her & fell into a fit. Ann Putman threw her Glove in a fit at her
What do you laught at it?
Well I may at such folly.
Is this folly, to see these so hurt?
I never hurt man, woman or child.
Mercy Lewes cryed out, she hath hurt me a great many times & plucks me down.
Then Martin laught againe
Mary Walcot said this woman hath hurt her a great many times
Susannah Sheldon also accused her of hurting her
What do you say to this?
I have no hand in Witchcraft.
What did you do? Did you consent these should be hurt?
No never in my life.
What ails these people?
I do not know.
But what do you think ails them?
I do not desire to spend my judgment upon it
Do you think they are Bewitcht?
No I do not think they are.
Well tell us your thoughts about them?
My thoughts are mine own when they are in, but when they are out they are an others
You said their Master -- Who do you think is their Master?
If they be dealing in the black art, you may know as well as I.
What have you done towards the hurt of these?
I have done nothing
Why it is you, or your appearance
I cannot help it
That may be your Master that hurt them
I desire to lead my life according to the word of God
Is this according to the word of God?
If I were such a person I would tell you the Truth
How comes your appearance just now to hurt these?
How do I know?
Are you not willing to tell the Truth?
I cannot tell: He that appeared in sams::shape can appear in any ones shape.
Do you beleive these afflicted persons do not say true?
they may lye for ought I know.
May not you lye?
I dare not tell a lye if it would save my life
Then you will not speak the truth will you?
I have spoken nothing else. I would do them any good.
I do not think that you have such affections for these whom just now you insinuated had the Devil for their Master
The marshall said she pincht her hands & Eliz: Hubbard was immediately afflicted.
Severall of the afflicted cryed out they saw her upon the Beam.
Pray God discover you if you be guilty.
Amen, Amen. A false tongue will never make a guilty person.
You have been a long time coming to day said Mercy Lewes, you can come fast enough in the night
No sweet heart --
And then said Mercy, & all the afflicted beside almost were afflicted
John Indian fell into a fit, & cryed it was that woman, she bites, she bites. And then said Martin was biting her lips.
Have not you compassion on these afflicted --
No I have none
They cryed out there was the black man along with her, & Goody Bibber confirmed it
Abig: Williams went towards her, but could not come near her. norGoody Bibber tho she had not accused her before: also Mary Walcot could not come near her. John Indian said he would kill her, if he came near her, but he fell down before he could touch her
What is the reason these cannot come near you?
I cannot tell it may be the Devil bears me more malice than an other.
Do you not see God evidently discovering you?
No, not a bit for that.
All the congregation besides think so.
Let them think what they will.
What is the reason these cannot come to you?
I do not know but they can if they will or else if you please,
I will come to them.
What was that the black man whisperd to you?
There was none whispered to me. 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 175, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Indictment No. 1 of Susannah Martin, for Affllicting Mary Walcott )

[+ June 29, 1692 ]

Anno Regis et Reginae Willm et Mariae . nunc Angliae &c Quarto Essex ss. 

The Jurors for our Sovereigne Lord & Lady the King and Queen pr'sents That Susanna Martin of Amsbury in the County of Essex widdow the Second Day of may in the forth year of the Reigne of our Sovereigne Lord and Lady William and Mary by the Grace of God of England Scottland: France and Ireland King and Queen: Defenders of the faith &. divers other Dayes and Times as well before as after certaine Detestable arts, called witchcrafts & Sorceries wickedly and feloniously hath used Practised & Exercised at and within the Townership of Salem in the County of Essex aforesaid in upon and ag't one Mary Wallcott of Salem Village Single woman, by which Said wicked arts the s'd. Mary walcott the Second day of May in the forth year afores'd: and at Divers other Dayes & times as well before as after was, and is Tortored Afflicted Pined wasted and Tormented as also for Sundry other acts of witchcraft by Said Susanah Martin committed and Done before and Since that time ag't the Peace of our Sovereigne Lord & Lady william and Mary King and Queen of England theire Crowne and Dignity and ag't: the forme of the Statute in that case made & Provided.  

Wittnesses
Sarah Vibber Sworn
Mary Wolcutt Sworn
[M]r Sam'll Parris. Sworn
Elizabeth Hubbard
Marcy Lewis

(Reverse) Bil a Vera 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 173, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )





(Indictment No. 2 of Susannah Martin, for Afflicting Mercy Lewis:)

[+ June 29, 1692 ]

Anno Regis et Reginae Willm et Mariae : nunc Angliae &c Quarto Essex ss 

The Jurors for our Sovereigne Lord & Lady the King and Queen: prsents That Susanah Martin of Amsbury in the County of Essex widdow the Second day of may in the forth Year of the Reigne of our Sovereigne Lord & Lady william and Mary by the Grace of God of England Scottland France & Ireland King and Queen Defenders of the faith &c: and divers other Dayes & times as well before as after. certaine Detestable Arts called witchcrafts and Sorceries wickedly: and felloniously hath used Practised & Exercised at and within the Towneship of Salem in the County of Essex aforesd: in and upon and ag't: one Marcy Lewis: of Salem Villiage Singlewoman by which said wicked arts the: Said Marcy Lewis. the said second day of may in the forth year aforesaid and at Divers other dayes and times as well before as after was and is Tortured: Afflicted Pined wasted and Torminted as also for Sundrey other acts of witchcraft by said Suzanah Martin Committed and done before and since that time ag't the Peace of our Sovereigne Lord. and Lady William & Mary King & Queen of England there Crowne and Dignity. and ag't the forme of the Statute in that case made and Provided.

Witnesses
Marcy Lewis
Mr. Samll: Parris Sworn
Anne Puttman Sworn
Sarah Biber Sworne
Elizabeth Hubbard
Mary Wallcott Sworne in Court June 2d. 92.

(Reverse) No. 2 In[d]ictm't [lost =against] S.Martin

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 172. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA.)



(Summons for Witnesses v. Susannah Martin, & Officer's Return )

[June 27, 1692]

William & Mary By the Grace of God of England Scotland France & Ireland King [King] & Queen defend'rs of the faith &ca.  

To John Allen Barnard Peache Joseph Ringg William Browne Jarvis Ringg. James Freeze John Kimball John Pressy Ensigne Joseph Knight Mr John Atkison & his wife & Son & mary the wif of nathaniell whitteer the wife John pressy & Jon Kembal 

Greeting --  

Wee Command you and Every of you all Excuses Set apart to be and appear at the Speciall Court of Oyer & Terminer holden at Salem the 28th of this Instant month then & there to testify the truth to the best of their knowledge On Severall Indictments to be Exhibited against Susanna Martin of Amesberry hereof make Return fail not dated in Salem June 27th. 1692 & in the fourth year of Our Reign.
*Step: Sewall Cler.

To the Sheriff of Essex or deputy or Constables of Newbury Salsbury & Amesbury Greeting --
also warn those persons that wth. James freeze or at any other time heard Susanna Martin Threaten relating to John Allens Oxen or any other thing whatsoever & make return as above
*Step: Sewall Cler.

28. June 92 by vertue of this Supeny. then was. warned mr. John. Atkinson. his wife. and his Son. nathaniel to make theire. pars'll. apperance at the Court of oyer and terminer holden at Salem 28:: of this instant.June: ensigne Joseph Knight . was warned before by me
Samuel hills consta'll for newbury

(Reverse) This or these supenys weare observed & served upon the severall persons therein mentioned according to ye tenour thereof namly upon Mr John Allin: & Barnard Peach & Joseph Ring & william Browne & Jarviss Ring & Mary the wife of Nathaniell Whitiher: & the same read to them the twenty ninth of this Instant June Anno: 1692
                                                  p'r me *Joseph Eaton Constable for sallisbury

This supeny was served according to the tenor theareof upon the persons thearin mentioned belonging to our towne Namly upon John Pressy & his wife & John Kimball & his wife & the same read to them the 29th of this Instant June Anno: 1692:
                                            p'r me *Joseph Lankister sen'r Constable for Amsbury

(Reverse) Subpena Con Susan Martin

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 176. )



( Testimony of Abigail Williams v. Susannah Martin )

[May 2, 1692]

The Testimony of Abigail Williams witnesseth & saith that she hath severall times seen, & been afflicted by the apparition of Susannah Martin of Almsbury widow at & before the .2. May. 1692 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 178, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )







( Deposition William Brown v. Susannah Martin )

[May 11, 1692]

The Deposion of william Browne of salsbury aged: 70: years or ther about who testifying sayth. That about on or to and thirty years ago Elizabeth his wif being a very rasional woman & sober & on that feard God as was well know to all that knew her & as prudently Carefull in her famly which woman going upon a time from her owne house towords the mille in salsbury did ther meett with susana martin the then wif of Georg martin of Amsbury Just as thay came to gather s'd susana martin vanisht a way out of her sight w'ch put the s'd Elizabeth into a great fright after which time the said martin did many tims afterward appere to her at her house and did much troubl her in any of her occasions and this continued till about feb: following: and then when shee did com it was as birds peking her Legs or priking her with the mosion of thayr wings and then it woold rise up into her stumak with priking payn as nayls & pinns of w'ch shee did bitterly complain and cry out Lik a woman in travil and after that it woold rise up to her throt in a bunch Lik a pulletts egg: and then shee  woold turn back her head & say: wich ye shant chok me In the time of this extremity the church appointed a day of humiliting to seek God on her behalf & therupon her trouble seased and shee saw goodwif martin no more: for a consideribl time for w'ch the church in stead of the day of humiliasion gave thanks for her deliveranc & shee came to meetting & went about her busnes as before this continued till Aprill following: at w'ch time somenses wear sent to the s'd Elizabeth brown & Good wif Osgood by the Court to give thayr evidences concerning the s'd martin and thay did before the Gran Jury gave a full accompt

After w'ch time the s'd Elizabeth told this deponent that as shee was milking of her cow the s'd susana martin came behind her and told her that shee woold make hir the miserablest creatur for defa[m]ing her name at the Court & wep greevously as shee told it to this deponent.    Aboute 2 month after this deponent came hom from hampton & his s'd wif woold not owne him but s'd thay wear devorst and Asked him whether he did not mett with on mr Bent of Abey in England by whom he was divorst  

And from that time to this very day have ben under a strang kind of distemper & frensy uncapibl of any rasional action though strong and healthy of body  

he farther testifyeth that when she came into that condition this deponent porcured Docter fuller & Crosby to com to her for her releas but thay did both say that her distemper was supernatural & no siknes of body but that some evil person had her

Sworne the eleventh day of May Anno Dom: 1692
      before me *Robt Pike Asst
W'm Browne made Oath that the above is a true relajon    according to his wifes Complaint in the day of it

(Reverse) concerning the truth of w't is sworne by william Browne concerning his wif with respect to her being a Rasional woman before shee was so handled and of her now present condision & her so long continuance all that then knew her and now know her can testafy to the truth of it for shee yet remaines a miserabl creetr of w'ch myself is on as wittnes my hand: 16. 3: 1692 
*Robert Pike 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 179 & 180, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )





( Testimony of John Pressy v. Susannah Martin )

[May 11, 1692]

The Testamony of John Pressy of Amsbury aged 53 years or therabouts takn before me at my house at Salsbury the eleventh day of may Ano: Dom. 1692  is as followeth That about twenty fower year ago: he this deponent was at Amsbury ferry upon a saterday in the eving near about the shutting in of the day light (w'ch was about three mile from his house) and as he was going hom alitle beyond the field of Georg martin at a hill caled goodals hill this deponent was be wildered and Lost his way & having wandered a while he cam bake againe to the same place which he knew by stooping trees in that plac  

W'ch pceiving he set out agine & steered by the moone w'ch shone brite and was a gaine Lost and came bake againe to the same place  And then sett out the 3d time in Lik manner and was be wildered and came back but not so far as before: but knew whear he was and so sett himself in his way as before: and in Less then half a mile going he saw a Light stand on his Left hand about too rod out of the way: it semd to be about the bignes of a half bushell  

but this deponent Kept on his way & Left it: and in a matter of seven or eight rod going it appeared againe at the Lik distance from him as before: & so it did againe the 3d time: but the deponet past on his way: and in Less then twenty rod going the same or such another Light Lay in his way: and he having a stik in his hand did with the end of it indevered to stir it out of the plac and to give it som smale blows with it: and the Light seemd to brust up & wave from side to side as a turky cock when he sprads his tayle but went not out of the plac  

which p'rceiving this deponent Layd it on with his stik with all his might he thinks he gave her at Lest forty blows: and so was going away and Leave it: but as he was going his heals wear struk up & he Layd on his bak on the ground & was sliding into a deep plac (as to him seemd) but taking hold of som brush or bushes & so recoverd himself: & having Lost his coat which he had upon his Arme went bak to the Light saw his coate & took it up & went home without any more disturbanc ther: he farther say that he do not know any such pitt to be in the place that he was sliding into he also sayth that when he did strik at the Light he did certainly feel a substanc w'th his stik  

he farther sayth that after his striking it & his recovering himself and going on his way as afores'd when he had gon about: 5: or:6: rod he saw Susana martine then wif of Georg martin of Amsbury standing on his Left hand as the Lights had don ther shee stood & Lookt upon him & turned her face after him as went along but sayd nothing nor did nothing to this deponent but that he went home as afors'd  

only he againe over went his owne house but knowing the ground he was upon returned and found his owne house but being then seazed with fear coold not speake till his wif spake to him at the dore & was in such condision that his family was afrayd of him which story being caryd to the Towne the next day: it was upon enquirey understood (that the s'd good wif martin was in such a miseribl case and in such payn that thay swabbed her body (as was reported)

(Reverse) This deponant farther sayth that these things being noysed abroad maj'r Pike sent for this deponent and had an accompt of the case: but seemd to be troubled that this deponent had not told him of it in season that shee might have ben vewed to have seen w't her ayle was.  

John pressy aforsayd made oathe to the truth of what is written in these too sides of the paper the eleventh day of may Anno: Dom: 1692. before me
*Robt Pike Asist  Jurat in Curia  

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 182 , Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





( Deposition of John Pressy and Mary Pressy v. Susannah Martin )

[May 11, 1692]

The deposion of John pressy aged 53 and marah his wif aged: 46: or ther abouts testifying sayth  

That som years after that the s.d John pressy had givn his evidenc against the s'd susana martin shee the s'd martin came and took these deponents to do about it and reviled them with many foule words saying wee had took a fals oathe and sayd that we shoold never prosper and that we shoold never prosper for our so doing: p'ticulerly that we should never have but too cows: & that if we wear never so likly to have more yet we shoold never obtaine it  

We do farther testify that from that time to this day we have never exeeded that nomber but somthing or other has prevented it tho never so likly (to obtaine it) tho thay had used all ordinary means for obtaining it by hiring cows of others that were not thayr owne this for twenty yeares space

John pressy made oathe to the truth of all that is above writtn at my house in salsbury the eleventh day of may Ano: Dom 1692 before me *Robt Pike Asist  

Mary Pressy testifieth to all the above Except Susanna her threatning of the not raising above two Cowes.  

(Reverse) Jno. Pressy of Salsbury Con. Martin 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 183, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )





( Deposition of Bernard Peach v. Susannah Martin )

[May 11, 1692]

The deposion of Barnerd peache aged: 43: or thereabouts who testifying sayth That about six or seven year sinc this deponent Living at the house of Jacob morall in Salsbury being in bed on alords day night he heard a [scratching] at the window he this deponent saw susana martin wif of George martin of Amsbury com in at the window & Jumpt downe upon the flower shee was in her whud & scarf and the same dress that shee was in before at metting the same day  

being com in shee was coming up toward this deponents face but turned back to his feet and took hold of them & drew up his body into a heape & Lay upon him about an hour & half or 2: hours in all w'ch taim this deponent coold not stir nor speake but feelling himself begining to be loosined or Lightned: he begining to strive he put out his hand a mong the clothes and took hold of her hand and brought it up to his mouth and bitt three of the fingers (as he Judg) to the breaking of the bones which don the s'd martin . went out of the Chamber downe the stayrs and out of the dore  

And as soon as shee went away this deponent caled to the peopl of the house and told them w't was don and that shee s'd martin was now gon out of the dore this deponent did also follow her, but the peopl did not see her (as they sayd) but without the dore there was abuket on the Left hand side: and there was a drop of blod in the  bucket & too more upon the snow: for there was alitle flight of snow: and ther wear the print of her 2: feett about afoot without the threshall but no more footting did appear  

2. he farther deposeth that somtime after this as he suposeth about 3 weeks after the said martin desired this deponent to come and husk corne at her house the next Lords day night say that if I did not com it wear better that I did  

but this deponent did not go: being then Living with W'm Osgood of the s'd Salsbury: and that night the s'd susana martin and another came out of the shop into the barne and on of them said hear he is and then came towards this deponent he having a quarter staf made a blow at them but the ruff of the barne prevented it: and they went away but this deponent followed them and as thay wear going to ward the window made another blow at them and struk them both down but away they went out at the shop window & this deponent saw no more of them and the Rumer went that the s'd martin had abroken head at that time but the deponent cannot speake to that upon his owne knowlig  

(Reverse) Barnard Peache

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 184, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )



( Testimony of Jarvis Ring v. Susannah Martin )

[May 13, 1692]

Jarvis Ring of Salsbury maketh oath as followeth

That about seven or eight years ago he had ben several times aflicted in the night time by som body or som thing coming up upon him when he was in bed and did sorely afflict him by Lying upon him and he coold neither move nor speake while it was upon him but somtimes made akind of noyse that folks did hear him & com up to him and as soon as any body came it woold be gon this it did for along time before and sinc: but he did never see any body clearly but on time
[] but on time in the night it came upon me as at other times and I did then see the pson
[of Susa]na martin of Amsbery I this deponent did presently see her
[and shee] came to this deponent and took him by the hand and bitt him
[by the fin] ger by fors and then came and Lay upon him awhile as
[formerly] and after awhile went away the print of the bite is
[yet to] be seen on the little finger of his right hand for it was [
hard to hea]le (he farther sayth) That several times he was asleep
[when it ca]me: But at that time when bitt his finger he was as
[sayerly awa] ke as ever he was: and plainly saw her shape and felt
[her teeth a] saforsayd

[Sworn]e by Jarvis Ring abovesayd may the 13th: 1692
[before] me *Robt Pike Asist att Salbury
                                    Jurat in Curia  

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 181.1 )

( Deposition of Joseph Ring v. Susannah Martin and Thomas Hardy )

[May 13, 1692]

The deposion of Joseph Ring at Salsbury aged:27: years being sworne sayth That about the Latter end of september Last being in the wood with his brother Jarvis Ring hewing of timber his brother went home with his teame and Left this deponent alone to finish the hewing of the peec for him for his brother to carry w'n he came againe: but as soon as his brother was gon ther came to this deponent the appearanc of Thomas Hardy of the great Iland at Puscataway and by som Impuls he was forsed to follow him to the house of benovy tuker w'ch was deserted and was about half a mile from the plac he was at work in) and in that house did appear Susana martin of Amsbery and the aforsayd Hardy and another female poisonson w'ch the deponent did not know: ther they had a good fire & drink it seemed to be sid'r ther continud most part of the night s'd martin being then in her natural shape and talking as shee use to do: but toward the morning the s'd martine went from the fire: made a noyse and turned into the shape of a blak hoge & went away and so did the other: to psons go away and this deponent was strangly caryed away also and the first plac he knew was by sam'll woods hous in Amsbury

sworne by Joseph Ring may the 13th: 1692:

before me *Robt Pike Asit
Jurat in Curia  

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 nos. 181.1, 185 )





( Deposition of Joseph Ring v. Susannah Martin and Thomas Hardy )

[May 13, 1692])

Joseph Ring of Salsbury aged 27 years having been strangly handled for the space of almost to year maketh this Relason upon oath as followeth viz
That in the month of Jun next after Casco bay fort was takn this deponent coming between Sandy beach & hampton towne mett with Tho: Hardy of great Iland & a company of several other creaturs with him w'ch said Hardy demanded of this deponent to shillings: and with the dreadfull noyse & hidious shapes of these creaturs and firebale this deponent was almost frited out of his witts: and in about an half an hour (or in deed he coold not judg of the time) they Left him & he came to hampton
About ten days after as the deponet came from boston between Rowlye & Newb'ry this deponent was over taken with a company of peple on horsbak who past by him and after they wear past by him The aforsd Tho: Hardy tarned about his horse & alet & cam bak to this deponent with his hors in hand & desired this deponant to go to mrs whits & drink with him: w'ch being refused he turnd away to the Company & thay all came up to gather such a breth that it seemd imposibl to scape being trod down by them but they went all past and then appeared no more
About oct: following coming from hampton in Salsbury pine plaine a company of horses with men & women upon them overtook this deponent & the aforesd Hardy being on of them came to this deponent as before & demanded his: 2s: of him and thretned to tear him in peeces to whom this depoant made no answer & so he & the rest went away & Left this deponet. After this this deponent had divers strang appearances w'ch did fors him away with them into unknown places w'r he saw meettings and festings and dancing and many strange sights: and from Agust Last he was dom and coold not speake till this Last Aprill
he also relates that ther did use to com to him a man that did present him abook to which he woold have him sett his hand with pro' mise of any thing that he woold have & ther wear presented all delectable things psons and places Imaginabl but he refusing it woold usualy end with most dreadfull shapes noyses & screching that almost scared him out of his witts & this was the usaall manner of proseeding w'th him: and on time the book was brought and a pen offerd him & to his aprehension ther was blod in the Ink horn but he never toucht the pen
he farther say that thay never told him w't he shoold writt nor  he coold not speak to Ask them w't he shoold writ
he farther say in severall thair mery meetting he seen Susanas martin appearnc
among them
And that day that his speach came to him againe w'ch was about [the end of] April Last as he was in bed shee did stand by his beds sid [and pincht] him. 

Joseph Ring abovesayd made oathe of the truth of all that is above
writtn this 13th day of may 1692 before me Robt Pike Asst
                Jurat in Curia  the substance of it viva voce  

(Reverse) [It is to] be understood that the Matter about the to shillings demanded of s'd [Ring] was this viz That when Casko was asalted before it was takn, [Capt] Cedrack walt was going from Great Iland in puscataway with [a pa] rty for thayr releef of w'ch party s'd Ring was one & s'd [ Hardy comi] ng up into the Roome wher s'd Ring bilited before thay sayled [and pl] ayd at shuffl bord or som such lik game & urged s'd Ring play [s'd] Ring told him he had no mony & s'd hardly Lent him 2s and then [s'd] Ring playd with him s'd hardy who won his mony away from [him] againe and so he coold not then pay him this accompt was by s'd Ring given to me *Robt Pike ast. 

( Essex County Court Archives, Witchcraft-Salem, Vol. 1, nos. 181.2 & 185. )



( Deposition of John Kimball v. Susannah Martin )

[May 16 1692]

The deposion of John Kembal of Amsbury aged 45 or upwards testifying sayth That about 23 years ago this deponent being about to remove from newbery to Amsbury having bought a peec of Land of Georg martin of Amsbury for which he was to pay him in catl or goods upon a certaine day in the march next following & when the day of payment was com martin & his wif came for the pay and the s'd Kembal offered them the choyc of three cows and other catl but did reserve two cows w'ch thay wear not free to part with thay being  the first that ever thay had but Martin himself was satisfied with other pay but Susana his wif understanding from this deponent and his wif that thay woold not part with on of these 2 cows the s'd Susana martin sayd (you had ben as good you had) for shee will never do you any more good (and so it came to pass) for the next Aprill following that very Cow Lay in the fayr dry yard with her head to her side (But starc dead) and when shee was fleaced no Impedement did appear in her for shee was a stout Lusty cow and in alitle while After another cow dyed & then an ox and then other catle to the value of 30£ that sping 

sworne by John Kembal may the 16 1692 before
*Robt Pike As.st
                                                                      Jurat in Curia
(Reverse) John Kimball of Amesbury

(Essex Co.unty Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft, vol. 1, no. 187, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA.)








(Deposition of John Kemball v. Susannah Martin )

[May 16, 1692]

John Kembale of Amsbury afor mensiond farther deposeth That the same year after he was com to Live at Amsbery and was dwelling in the house of Edmund Elliat he was needed to get a dog & hearing that the wif of s'd Geor Martin had a bich that had whelps & this deponent went to her to get on of her but shee not Letting him have his choyc: he did not absolutely agree for any but s'd he heard on blezdal had a bich by w'ch he mayst suply but Anser if not ther nor no whear els he woold have hers at her priz
but being upon that accompt at s'd Blezdels #[upon that]and marked the whelp that I agreed for Georg martin coming by Askt me whether I woold not have on of his wifes pupys to w'ch this deponent made answer on the negative  

The same day Edmond Eliat sayd that he was at the house of the s'd martins & heard the s'd martin Asked his wif why this depent wear not to have on of her pupys and shee said he was then sayd he have gott on at goodman blezdells & he saw him choose it and mark it (to w'ch his s'd wif sayd) If I Live Ile give him pupeys enough  

within a few days after this I this deponent coming from his Intended hous in the woods to Edmond Eliats house whear I dwelt about the [the] sun sett or presently after & ther did arise a litle blak cloud in the: n: w and a few Drops of Raine and the wind blew prity hard in going between the house of John wood & the meetting house the s'd deponent came by several stumps of trees by the way side he by Impuls he can give no reson of that made him  tambl over the stumps on after another though tho he had his ax upon his shoulder w'ch put him in dang'r & made him resolved to avoyd the next but coold not And when he came alitl below the meetting house ther did appear alitle thing lik apupy of a darkish coler it shott betweene my Legs forward & bakward as on that wear [don raking] the hay and this deponent being free from all fear used all posibl indevers to cut it with his ax but coold not hurt it and as he was this Labering with his ax the pupy gave a litl Jump from him & seemed to go into the ground.  

In alitl farther going ther did appear a blak pupy som w't bigger then the first but as blak as a cole to his apprehension which came against him w'th such violenc as its quik mosions did exceed his motions of his ax do w't he coold & it flew at his belly & away & then at his throt & over his shoulder on way & go off & up att it againe another way and with such quiknes speed & violenc did it asalt him as if it woold tear out his throt or his belly a good while he was without fear but at last I felt my hart to sayle & sink under it that I thought my lif was going out & I recovered my self & gave a start up & ran to the fenc & caling upon god & Naming the name Jesus Christ & then it in visibly away my meaning as it ceased about but this deponent mad it not known to any body for fritting his wif 

(Reverse) The next morning Edmond Eliat (as he told abrod and in his owne house) sayd that he going toward the hous of said martin to Look his oxen went in to Light his pipe & the s'd martins wif Asked him whear kembal was (s'd Eliat s'd abed with [with] his wif for ought he knew) (sayd shee)  

they say he was frited Last night) with w't sayd Eliat she sayd with pupyes Eliat replyed that he heard nothing of it and Asked whear shee heard it and shee sayd about the Towne w'ch story s'd Eliat having told it was all the Towne over when this deponent came home at night for he had been all day alone in the woods at work at his frames

John kembale made oath to the truth of all that is written on both sides of this paper
may the 16th 1692 before me *Robt Pike Asist
                                                                        Jurat in Curia 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 186, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )





( Deposition of Bernard Peach v. Susannah Martin )

[May 20, 1692]

The deposion of Barnard peache aged 42 or ther abouts testifyeth That about ten years ago this deponant living with w'm Osgood of Salsbury he s'd Osgood had a ox hurt & he with him & Georg martin of Amsbury desired to have som of ther beef but was denyed and went a way discontent And the next day on of the [] best cows my s'd master osgood had was in such a mad fright that too men had much ado to gett her into the house wher shee had usually ben tide up: shee did run and fly about

The next day shee being Let out & went away w'th the other catle (well & Lusty as far as wee coold desern) but came home at evening very ill having [Atter] under her eyes as bigg as wallnutts & dyed the same night 

sworne at Salsbury the 20th day of may Ano 1692
before me *Robt Pike Asst

(Reverse) Barnard Peach

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 189, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )





( Deposition of John Allen v. Susannah Martin )

[June 7, 1692]

The deposion of Left John Allen of Salsbury aged 45 years testifying sayth That in or about the year [] this deponent was haling timber for Mr Georg Car for building a vesell at Amsbery at mr Goodins building plac & haveing don & about to go home Susana martin then wif of Georg martin desired this deponent to cart staves for them which this deponent refused to do because of his oxn which wear weake & needed now to gett flesh but shee seemed to be discontent (and as Jams freez and others then present told this Deponent) (that shee sayd) I had [had] ben as good I had (for my oxn shoold never do me much more servis) upon w'ch this deponent sayd dost thretn me thou old wich or words to that efect resolving to throw her into a brook that was fast by: which to avoyd she flew over the bridge & so escaped: but as he was going home on of his oxn tired that he was forst to unyok him to get him home And after they  wear com home: put the s'd oxn to Salsbury beach whear several other oxn whear catl usualy are putt whear they had Long rang of meadows to feed on & whear catle did use to gett flesh: but in a few days al the oxn upon the beach we found by thayr tracks wear gon to the mouth of the River merimak but not returned from whenc we thought they wear run into the s'd river: but the next day sending to plum Iland found thayr tracks ther to be com ashore w'ch tracks they followed to the other end of s'd Iland & a consideribl way bak againe & then sate down w'ch being espyed by those that fought them thay did use all Immaginabl gentlnes to them to som acquaintanc w'ch som of them seemed to attend but all on a sudaine away thay all run with such violenc as if thay their mosion had ben dyabolical till thay came neer the mouth of merimak river and then: turned to the right hand & ran right in to the sea all but to old oxn (w'ch had before Left thayr Company) and all the rest went to sea a far as thay coold see them: & then on of them came back againe with such swiftnes as was amazing to the be holders who stood redy to Imbrac him & help his tired carcase up: but Letting him Loose away he runs up into the Iland & from there through the marshes up in to newbery towne & so up into their woods and ther was after a while found about hartechok river over against Amsbery so that of: 14: good oxn only that was saved the rest were all cast up som at Cap and som in on plac and som in other of thay [thay] only had the hids: he farther sayth that the abovesd James freeze did often move the p'rsecuting of the s'd Susana martin in the case being undoutedly confident that shee was a wich

John Allin made oathe to the truth of all that is above writtn Jun ye 7th 1692
  before me Robt Pike Asst

(Reverse)  Jno. Allen 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 188, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA.)



 



( Depositions of Joseph Knight & Elizabeth Clark v. Susannah Martin )

[June 29, 1692]

The Depossittion of Joseph knight aged about 40 yers

This Deponant doe testifie & saye that on the 20th Daye of October or thereabouts in the yere of o'r Lord 1686 Nathan'll Clarke Junj'r : of Newbery together with this Deponant going out into the woods together to fetch up horses there met with Susana Martaine of Amsbury with a litle Dog Runing by hir syde & in my sight shee tooke up s'd Dog under her arme but comeing up neere to hir she had a Kegg or a halfe feirkin under the same arme; this Deponant then lookt hir in the face & told hir that that kegg was a litle Dogg but nowe Nath'el. Clarke said soe it was: & then passing from hir we found our horses & brought them to a small Causwaye but Could not git them over but there being a small Knowle of land here: our horsses ran round about it the greatist parte of that daye we oftn bringing them up to the Causwaye but then they turned to that knowle & Ran about it the same waye but at length there Came a young man with a yoak of oxen to goe over the Causwaye who with some difficaultie got them over for altho the Causwaye was very good yet one of the oxen hung back as though he were frighted but at length were forct over & then we got over our horses.

Joseph knight ownid this his tistimony
to be the truth: on his oath. before the Juryors of Inquest
this 29. of June: 1692  

Elizabeth Clark who then was the wife of the aboves'd. Nathaniell Clarke doe testifie that when my s'd husband Nath'll: Clarke Came home he told me
This Deponant the matter mentioned in Joseph knights testimony & he related to me the wholl of the Matter & all the Sircumstances related in s'd testimony: excepting that my husband told Joseph knight that the Kegg under Goodwif martins arme was or had bin a dogg This Deponant doe further testie that goodwife martain aboves'd. Came to our house the same daye mentiond  in Joseph knights testimony before my husband Came home & Comeing into the house our dog bit hir by the leg as she said whereupon She being angry said that he was a Churll lik his master

Elizabeth Clark ownid this har testimo to be the truth: on the oath which she had taken be fore: the Jury for Inquest: this 29. of June 1692

(Reverse) El. Clarke 

(Reverse) Joseph Knight
elizabeth clark S. Martin

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 nos. 190,192 Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )





( Robert Downer Mary Andrews, & Moses Pike v. Susannah Martin )

[June 30 1692]

The deposion of Robert Downer of Salsbery aged 52 years who testify and say

That several years ago susanna martin the then wif of Georg martin being brought to Court for a wich the said Downer having som words with her (she at that time attending mrs. Light at Salsbury) This deponent among other things told her be leeved that shee was a wich by w't was s'd or wittnesd against her at w'ch shee seeming not well afected s'd that a or some shee devel woold fech him away #[in a short tme] ]shortly at w'ch this deponent was not much moved: but at #[nig] night as he lay in his bed in his owne house alone ther came at his window the liknes of a catt and by and by com up to his bed took fast hold of his throt and Lay hard upon him a Consderibl while and was lik to throtl him at Length he minded w't susana martin thretned him with the day be fore he strove w't he coold and sayd avoyd thou shee divell in the name of the father & the son & the holy Ghost & then itt Lett him go & slumpt down upon the flower and went out at window againe he farther sayth that the next morning befor ever he [he] had sayd any thing of it som of that family asked him about it (as from her owne)  

mrs. mary Andras aged:40: year testify that shee did hear the s'd Susana martin threatn or tell the s'd Robt Downer that a shee divell woold fech him a way shortly: shee further sayth that from som of her fathers family shee did hear that [that] the s'd [su martin]
(/tag/martin_susannah.html told them how s'd downer was served the that he was afflicted as abovesd  

moses pike aged :26: years or more testify that he did he[Lost =hear] susana martin tell how Ro downer was handled and as he [re]members it was the next day after it was don at night  

Sworne by Robt Downer mrs mary #[Andr] Allin & moses pike June 30 1692 before me *Robt Pike Asst

(Reverse) Rob't. Downer &c ver. Martin

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 191, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA.)



(Deposition of Thomas Putnam v. Susannah Martin )

[++ May 2, 1692]

The deposistion of Tho. putnam agged 40 years & #[Ed putnam] agged 38 yers #[we whose names are under writen]who testifie and say that we have ben conversant with the afflected parsons or the most of them, as namly mary walcott mercy lewesEliz: Hubbard Abigail Williams sarah vibber and Ann putnam Jun. and have often heard the afforementioned parsons complain of susannah martin of Amsbery tortoring them and we have seen the marks of severall bittes and pinchs which they said susannah martin did hirt them with and also on the 2 day of may 1692 being the day of the examination of susannah martin the affornamed parsons  ware mostreviously tortored dureing the time of hir examination for upon the glance of hir eies they ware strucken down or allmost choak and upon the motion of hir finger we took notes they ware afflected and if she did but clench hir hands or hold hir head aside the afflected parsons affor mentioned ware most greviously tortored in like maner and several times sence we have seen them tortored complaing of susannah Martin for hurting them
*Thomas putnam.
#[Edward Putnam] 

Nathaniel Ingrsoll testifieth
to all the above & both of them do say on Oath that they beleive
it is done by Witchcraft
                          Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) Nathan'll: Ingersoll & Tho: Putman
Susannah Martin 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 193, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )





( Deposition of Samuel Parris , Nathaniel Ingersoll and Thomas Putnam v. Susannah Martin )

[++  May 2, 1692]

The Deposition of Sam: Parris aged about. 39 years, & Nathanael Ingersoll aged about fifty & eight yeares and also Tho: Putman aged about fourty yeares all of Salem --  

testifyeth & saith that Abigail Williams , Mercy Lewes Mary Walcot, Susannah Shelding and John Indian were much afflicted at the examination of Susannah Martin of Almsbury Widdow-before the honoured Magistrates the. 2. May. 1692  & that Goody Bibber (who before had not accused her) & some other of the afflicted then & there testifyed that there was a black man whispering in her ear, & also that the said Bibber Abigail Williams & Mary Walcot & John Indian could not come near said Martin when upon triall they were ordered by the Magistrates to attempt it, & their agonies & tortures they charged said Martin as the  cause of, & also we farther saw that when she said Martin bit her lips they were bitten, & when the afflicted were ordered to go towards her they were knockt down
                                                                      Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) The Depotion of Sam: Parris &c ag'st.
Susan: Martin 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 194, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )





(Deposition of Elizabeth Hubbard v. Susannah Martin )

[+ May 2, 1692]

The Deposistion of Elizabeth Hubburd agged about: 17: years: who testifieth and saith that I have often seen the Apperishtion of susannah Martin amongst the wicthes but she did not hurt me tell the: 2 day of may being the day of hir examination: but then shee did afflect me most greviously dureing the time of hir examination for if she did but look parsonally upon me she would strike me down or allmost choak me: and severall times sence the Apperishtion of susannah martin has most greviously afflected me also on the day of hir examination I saw the Apperishtion of susannah martin goe and afflect and allmost choak Mary walcott Mircy Lewes Abigaill williams and Ann putnam jun'r
                                                      mark
Eliz:  M  Hubbards 

(Reverse)Eliz. Hubburd against
Susannah Martin 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 No. 196, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )





(Deposition of Mercy Lewis v. Susannah Martin )

[+ May 2, 1692]

The Deposistion of Mircy Lewes aged about 19 years who testifieth and sath that in the latter end of April 1692 there appeared to me the Apperishtion of ashort old woman which tould me hir name was goddy martin and that she came from Ambery who did most greviously torment me [by] by biting and pinching me urging me  vehemently to writ in hir book but on the 2 May 1692 being the day of hir examination susannah Martin did torment and afflect me most greviously in the time of hir examination for w'n she looked upon me parsonally she would strike me down or almost choake me and severall times sence the Apperishtion of susannah martin has most greviously afflected me by pinching and almost choaking me to death urging me to writ in hir book: and also on the day of hir examination I saw the Apperishtion of susannah Martin goe and hurt the bodyes of Mary WalcottElizabeth Hubburd Abigail williams and Ann putnam junr.
* Mercy lewes 

(Reverse) mircy Lewes against
Susannah Martin 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 195, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )





(Deposition of Ann Putnam, Jr. v. Susannah Martin )

[+ May 2, 1692]

The Deposistion of Ann putnam jun'r who testifieth and saith sume time in April 1692 there appered to me the Apperishtion of an old short woman that toald me hir name was martin and that she came from Amsbery who did Immediatly afflect me urging me to writ in hir book but on the 2: may 1692 being the day of hir examination susana martin did most greviously afflect me dureing the time of her examination for when she did but look personaly upon she would strike me down or almost choak and severall times senc the Apperishtion of susannah martin. has most greviously afflected me by pinching me & on the [the] day of hir examination I saw the Apperishtion of susanna martin goe and Afflect the bodys of mary wallcott Mircy Lewes Elizabeth Hubuard and Abigail williams

(Reverse) Ann putnam Jun'r against
Susannah Martin

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 198, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )





(Deposition of Mary Walcott v. Susannah Martin )

[+ May 2, 1692]

The Deposistion of Mary Wolcott agged about 17 years who testifieth & saith that in the latter end of April 1692 there Appered to  me the apperishtion of a short old woman which tould me hir name was gooddy martin and that she came from Amsbery who did most greviously afflict & torment and afflect me by pinching and all most choaking me to death urging me to writ in hir book or elce threating to kill me: but on the 2'd may being the day of hir examination She did most greviously torment & afflect me during the time of hir examination for when she did but look parsonally upon me she would strik me down or all most choak me to death: and severall times sence the Apperishtion of Susannah martin has most greviously afflected me by biting pinching and allmost choaking me to death threating to kill me if I would not writ in hir book: also on the :2 day of may 1692 being the day of hir examination I saw the Apperishtion of Susannah martin goe and afflect and hurt the bodyes of mircy LewesElizabeth Hubburd Abigaile williams and Ann putnam Junr.
                                                    hir mark
mary  M W    walcott 

(Reverse) mary walcott against
susannah martin
Court Oy & Ter by Adjournmnt June .29. 92 

( MS Am 45, Rare Books & Manuscripts, Boston Public Library, Boston, MA. )





( Testimony of John Atkinson v. Susannah Martin )

[+ June 29, 1692]

John Attkinson aged fifty six years or thereabout; Testifieth thatt some time bout five years since One of the sons of Susannah Martin Sen'r of Amsbury, Exchanged a cow of his w'th me for a cow w'ch I bought of mr Wells the minister; w'ch cow he tooke from mr. Wells his house; About a weeke after I went to the house of Susanna martin to receive the cow of the young man her son; W'n I came to bring the cow home nottw'th -- stand hamstringing of her and haltring her, she was so madd thatt we could scarce gett her along butt she broke all the ropes fastened to her, we putt the halter two or three times round a tree w'ch she broke and ran away and w'n we came down to the fery, we were forct to run up to our #[armpit] wastes in water, she was so firce, butt after w'th much adoe we gott her into the boat, She was as tame as any creature w'tsoever  

& further this deponent  Saith that usanna Martin Muttered & was Unwilling this deponent should have the Cow
                                                      Jurat in Curia
(Reverse) John Atkinson 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 199, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )



( Testimony of Sarah Atkinson v. Susannah Martin )

[+ June 29, 1692]

Sarah Attkinson aged forty Eight years or thereabouts testifieth thatt Some time in the Spring of the year about Eighteen years Since Susanna Martin came unto our house att Newbury from Amsbury in an Extraordinary dirty Season w'n itt was not fitt for any [pbar ]son to travell She then came on foot, w'n She came into our house I asked her whether She came from Amsbury a fot She Sayd She did I asked how She could come in this time a foott and bid my children make way for her to come to the fire to dry her selfe She replyed She was as dry as I was and turn'd her Coats on Side, and I could nott [pbar ]ceive thatt the Soule of her Shows were wett I was startled att itt that she should come soe dry and told her thatt I should have been wett up to my knees if I Should have come So farr on foott she replyd thatt She scorn'd to have a drabled tayle
                                                                    Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) Sarah Atkinson 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 200 )





(Deposition of Sarah Bibber v. Susannah Martin )

[+ May 2, 1692]

The Deposistion of Sarah viber agged about 36 years: who testifieth and s[aith] that on the 2: May. 1692 the Apperishtion of susannah martin of Amsbery did most greviously torment me dureing the time of hir examination for if she did but look personally upon me she would strik me down or all most choak me: and also the same day I saw the Apperishtion of susannah martin  most gr[eviou]sly afflect the bodyes of mary walcott mercy lewes and Ann putnam by pinching and almost choaking them: and severall times sence the Apperishtion of susannah martin has most greviously afflected me by beating and pinching me and almost choaking me to death:  

& that she beleives the s'd Martin is a witch
& that she is bewiched by her                                                Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse)  Sarah Viber against
Susan: Martin 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 No. 197)