SWP No. 113: Ann Pudeator Executed, September 22, 1692

(See also: George Jacobs, Sr. -- Mittimus .)





(Warrant for the apprehension of Ann Pudeator and Alice Parker, & Officer's Return )

[May 12, 1692]

To the Marshall of Essex or Constable  in Salem

You are in theire Majes'ts names hereby required forthwith to apprehend and bring before us Allce. Parker the wife of John Parker of Salem and Ann Pudeater of Salem Widdow who stand Charged with Sundry acts of Witchcraft by them Committed this day Contrary to the Laws of our. Sov'r Lord & Lady faile not Dated Salem May the .12'th 1692
                                        per us *John: Hathorne ] Assis'ts
*Jonathan. Corwin ] Assis'ts

May 12'th -- 1692 I have apprehended the above named persons and Brought them att the place apointed by your honers
Per mee *George Herrick Marshall of Essex

(Reverse) Warrant 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 261, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )



(Testimony of Sarah Churchill v. Ann Pudeator , Bridget Bishop , and George Jacobs, Sr. )

[June 1, 1692]

Sarah Churchwell confesseth that Goody Pudeater brought the book to this Examin't and she signed it, but did not know her at that tyme but when she saw her she knew her to be the same and that Goody Bishop als Olliver appeared to this Examinan't & told her she had killed John Trasks Child, (whose Child dyed about that tyme) & said als Bishop Olliver afflicted her as alsoe did old George Jacobs, and before that time this Examin't being afflicted could not doe her service as formerly and her sd Master Jacobs called her bitch witch & ill names & then afflicted her as #[before] above and that Pudeater brought 3: Images like Mercy Lewis, Ann Putnam , Eliza' Hubbard & they brought her thornes & she stuck them in the Images & told her the persons whose likeness they were, would be afflicted, & the other day saw Goody Olliver #[sitt] sate upon her knee,
                                                            Jurat in Curia  by
Sarah Churchill
this Confession was taken before
John Hathorne
and Jonathan Corwin Esq'rs 1'0 Junij 1692, as attests
*Tho: Newton 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 262, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA.  )



(Examination of Ann Pudeator )

[July 2, 1692 ]

An Puddeater: examined before the Majestrates of Salem July 2: 92
Sarah: Churchwell: was bid to: say what she: had to say of her: You have charged her with bringing: the book to you: A Yes. S'd: Churchwell
have you seen her since. A no: 

goodwife Puddeater: you have: formerly: bin complaynd of: we now further enquire: here is one person: saith you brought her: the book which is Sarah Churchell: look on the person: ses Churchell: you did bring me the book: I was at goodman Jacobses

Puddeater s'd I never saw the woman before now::it was told Puddeater this mayd charged you with: bringing her: the book: at the last examinat'n Puddeater s'd I never saw: the devils book nor knew: that he had one L't Jer: Neal: was asked what he could say of this woman Neal s'd she had bin an ill carriaged woman: & since my wife has bin sick of the small pox: this woman has come to my house pretending kindnes: and I was glad to see it: she asked: whether she might use our morter: which was used: for my wife: and I consented  to it: but I afterward repented of it: for the nurs told. me my wife was the wors: for senc she was very ill of a flux: which she had not before

When the officer came: for: Puddeater: the nurs s'd you are come to late for. my wife grew wors. till she dyed: s'd Pudeater had often thretned my wife: 

Eliz Hubard: s'd she: had seen s'd Pudeater #(but she) s'd Mary Walcut: but she had not hurt her she had seen her with goodwife Nurs

goody Puddeater what did you doe with the ointments that you had in yo'r hous so many of them:: she s'd I never had ointment nor oyl but neats foot oyl in my hous since my husband dyed: but the Constable Joseph Neal affirmd she had: she had near 20 that had oynment or greas: in them: a little in a thing: she s'd she never had any oyntment but neats foot oyl: in the hous but what was in these things the Constabl. Speakes. of.

A: It was greas: to make sope of::but: why: did you put them in so many things when one would have held all: but answerd not the porpose: but the constabl. s'd o. oyntments were of several sorts

Sarah Vibber did you ever se this woman: before now answerd no An putnum s'd she had never seen: her but since she come: to Salem Town last: s'd Putman fell into a fitt: & s'd Puddeater: was commanded to take her by the wrist: & did & s'd Putnum was well presently: Many Warin fell into: two fitts quickly after. one another: & both times was helped: by s'd Puddeaters: taking her by the wrist

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 264, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )







(Summons for Witnesses v. Ann Pudeator and Alice Parker, & Officer's Return )

[September 5, 1692]

W'm & Mary by the Grace of God of England Scotland france & Ireland King & Queen defend' s  &c.
To the Sheriff of Essex or deputy Greeting 

We Comand you to Warn John Wesgate John Bullock Martha Dutch Susanna Dutch L't Jeremiah Neale John Beckett John Best Jun'r Jno Loader Sarah parott
That they & Every of them appear at the Next Court of Oyer & Terminer holden at Salem on the Next Tuesday at Twelve of the Clock There to Testify the Truth to the best of thier knowledge On certain Indictments to be Exhibited against Alce Parker & Ann Pudeater hereof make return fail not dated in Salem Sep'r 5'th 1692 in the fourth yeare of Our Reign
*Stephen Sewall Cler

(Reverse) Sep't 5'th 1692. I have Sumoned and have Warned all the within named persons John Best Jun'r Except sd Best being Removed to Ipswich that thay and Every of them appeare to Give in their Evid: &c: att time and place within written
                                          P'r me *Geo. Herrick
                                          Dep't sheriff

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 263, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Indictment of Ann Pudeator, for Afflicting Mary Warren)

[+ September 7, 1692]

Essex in the Province of the Massachussetts Bay In New England ss ]
Annoq'e R R's & Reginae Gulielmi & Mariae Angliae &c Quarto Annoq'e Dom 1692 // 

The Juriors for our Sov'r Lord and lady the King & Queen pr'sent That Ann Pudeator of Salem in the County of Essex #[Widow] aforesaid Widdow The second day of July in the Yeare Afore said and divers others days and times as well before as after Certaine detestable Arts called Witchcraft & Sorceries Wickedly Mallitiously and felloniously hath used practised and Exercised At and within the Township of Salem aforesaid in & upon & against one Mary Warren of Salem aforesaid Single Woeman, by which said Wicked Acts the said Mary Warren the second day of July aforesaid and divers other days and times both before and after was and is Tortured Afflicted Pined Consumed Wasted & Tormented, and also for Ssundry other Acts of Witchcraft by the said Ann Pudeater Comitted and done before and Since that time Ags't the peace of Our Sov'r lord & Lady the King  & Queen theire Crowne and Dignity and ags't the forme of the Stattute in that Case made and Provided

Witnesses
Mary Warren Jurat
Sarah Churchel Jurat
An Putman Jurat

(Reverse) Ann Pudeator
on Mary Warren bila vera

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 260, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Testimony of Sarah Churchill,  Mary Warren, Elizabeth Hubbard, Ann Putnam, Jr. Mary Walcott, Sarah Bibber v. Ann Pudeator )

[September 6, 1692 ]

Sarah Churchel: affirmd: to: the Jury of inquest: that Ann Puddeate: #(her) has: greatly afflicted her s'd Churchel by: choaking her pinching her & sticking pinse into her: & by pressing of her: &: making her sett her hand to: the book upon: the oath she hath: taken Sept: 6: 1692
                                                                                                                                   & brought poppets to her to
Stick pins to w'ch she did                            
                                                   Sworne in Court.
                                                   & the P'sons aflicted by it

Mary Warin upon her oath: that she hath taken affirms: to the Jury of inquest: that Ann Puddeater: hath often: afflicted me: by biting me pinching me sticking pins in me: & choaking me: and particularly on the 2: day of July: att her examination: s'd Puddeater did: afflict#(e) me greatly: also she or her Apperition: did offer: me the book to sign to: she told: me also that she was the caus of Jno Turners  falling  off: the cherry tree: to his great: hurt: & which: amazed him in his head & almost kild him: she told me also: she was the caus of: Jeremiah Neals wifes death: & I saw her hurt: Eliz Hubbard: Mary Walcot: & An Putnam: the last night she: afflicted: me also: last night: by her wichcrafts & I doe veryly: beleev: s'd Ann Puddeater is a: wich: she affirms Puddeater: told her: she kild her husband Puddeater: & his first wife and that she was an instrument of Jno Bests: wifes death: Sept'r 7: 1692
                                                      Sworne in Court

Eliz Hubberd affirmd: upon: the oath she hath taken: thatt: she hath seen: Ann: Puddeater: Afflict#(ed) Mary: Warin: & that she #(her) or her Apperition did hurt me and Mary Warin the last night before. the Jury of inquest. Sept'r: 7: 1692  & that she hath aflicted her since she came into Court
                                                 Jurat in Curia.  

An Putnam affirmed: upon: her oath: to: the Jury of inquest: that: she: hath seen Ann Puddeater: afflict Mary Warin: Mary Walcot: & Eliz Hubbard: often: and perticulerly: #(ate) att the time: of her: last examination: before the Majestrates: at Mr Tho. Beadles: she also: hath afflicted me: both then and at other times: Sept'r 7: 1692                                    Owned her Evidence in Court 

Sarah Vibber: upon: her: oath affirmed to the Jury of inquest that shee: hath seen: An Puddeater afflict: Mary Warin: Mary Walcot & An Putnam: both at the time of her examination: at M'r Tho Beadles; and the last night she: together with goodwife Parker. did afflict: the forenamed: WarinWalcot & Putnum: s'd Puddeater: hath afflicted: me: to: and i do beleeve she is a wich. Sept'r 7: 1692 

Mary Walcot: upon oath: affirmd to the Jury of inquest: that: she hath seen An Puddeater: afflict Mary: Warin: An Putnam: & Eliz Hubbard: at the time of her examination: at M'r Tho Beadles: and also the last night: I saw: her: afflict Mary Warin #[Mercy Lewis] An Putman & Eliz Hubbard: by wichcraft: & I verily beleev: s'd Pudeater: is a witch September: 7: 92.  & that this day she hath afflicted this deponent.
                                                     Jurat in Curia Sep'r 10. 92.  

Attest *S Sewall

I find: by: my Charracters: which: I took: from at the examination of An Puddeater that it was on the 2 day of July: that she was examined: at m'r Tho Beadles thay bearing: date so:
                                              Sept'r 7: 1692
*Simon Willard: 

(Reverse) Several Wittnesses against An Pudeator 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 265, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA.  )





( Testimony of Samuel Pickworth v. Ann Pudeator & Satement by Ann Putnam  )

[September 7, 1692]

The testimony of samuall pikworth Whou testifieth that about six weckes agoo: I this deponant was coming along salim strete btween ann pudeaters hous and Captin higison hous. it being in the evening:  and I this deponant saw a woman: neare Captin higisonn Cornar. the which I sopposed to be ann pudeatar. and in a moment of time she pasid by me as swifte as if a burd flue by me and I saw said woman goo in to ann pudeaters hous
                                                                     Jurat in Curia  

*S Sewall CI 

Sam'll Pickworth: affirmeth: that the above written evidence is the truth: upon oath: to:
the Jury. of Inquest: Sept'r 7: 92 

(Reverse) september the 7. 92
ann Putnam afarmid to the grand Inquest that ann pudeatar: towld har that she flu by a man in the neight in to a hous Sam Pickw'th

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 266, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Testimony of John Best, Sr. v. Ann Pudeator )

[September 7, 1692]

The testimony of Jno Best. Senior aged about 48 yeers Testifieth & saith that some yeers Last past that I this Deponat did often hear my wife saye that Ann pudeater would not Lett her alone untill she had killd her By her often pinching & Bruseing of her Till her Earms & other parts of her Body Looked Black By Reson of her soer pinching of her in the Tyme of her sickness of my wife did affarne [affirm] that itt was an pudeater that did afflict her & stood in the Belefe of itt as Long as she Lived
Jurat in Curia  *S Sewall 

Cler Sep'r 7'th 92     Jno Best: afirmed: to the truth of the above written: befor. the Jury of inquest. Sept'r 7: 1692 

(Reverse) Jno Best Oath ags't An: Pudeator -- 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 268, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





( Testimony of John Best, Jr. v. Ann Pudeator )

[+ September 10, 1692]

The testimony of John best Junear hou testifieth uppon his oath before the grand Inquest that his Mother did severall tims in har siknis complain of ann pudeatar of salim the wife of Jacob pudeatar how she #(did captur) had beewiched har and that she did beleve she would kill har before she had dun: and soo she said severall times duering hear siknis: until har death: allso I this deponant: did severall tims goo in to the wouds to fech my fathars Cowes: and I did drive goode pudeatars Cow back from. our Cowes: and I being all alone: ann pudeatar: would Chide me when [torn] I Came houm: for turning the Cow bak: by Reson of which I this deponant did Conclude said pudeater was a wich

Jurat in Curia  

(Reverse) John best: Junior against pudeatar 

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no 269, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )





(Petition of Ann Pudeator )

[++ September 15, 1692]

The humble Petition of Ann Poodeater unto the honoured Judge and Bench now Setting in Judicature in Salem humbly sheweth:

That Wheras your Poor and humble Petitioner being condemned to die and knowing in my own conscience as I shall shortly answer it before the great God of heaven who is the searcher & knower of all hearts: That the Evidence of Jno Best Sen'r and Jno Best Jun'r and Sam'll Pickworth w'ch was given in against me in Court were all of them altogether false & untrue and besides the abovesaid Jno Best hath been formerly whipt and likewise is rcorded for A Lyar I would humbly begg of yo'r honours to Take it into your Judicious and Pious  consideratio That my life may not be taken away by such false Evidence and wittnesses as these be likewise the Evidence given in against me by Sarah church and Mary Warren I am altogether ignorant off and know nothing in the least measure about it nor nothing else concernig the crime of witchcraft for w'ch I am condemned to die as will be known to men and angells att the great day of Judgment begging and imploring your prayers att the throne of grace in my behalfe and your poor and humble petition'r shall for ever pray as she is bound in duty for yo'r hon'rs health and happiness in this life and eternall felicity in the world to come

(Reverse) Ann Pudeaters Peticon An Pudeaters

( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 267, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA.  )